<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>A Predicament</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="a-predicament" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Predicament</h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     What chance, good lady, hath bereft you thus?

                 —COMUS.
</pre>
<p>
      IT was a quiet and still afternoon when I strolled forth in the goodly
      city of Edina. The confusion and bustle in the streets were terrible. Men
      were talking. Women were screaming. Children were choking. Pigs were
      whistling. Carts they rattled. Bulls they bellowed. Cows they lowed.
      Horses they neighed. Cats they caterwauled. Dogs they danced. Danced!
      Could it then be possible? Danced! Alas, thought I, my dancing days are
      over! Thus it is ever. What a host of gloomy recollections will ever and
      anon be awakened in the mind of genius and imaginative contemplation,
      especially of a genius doomed to the everlasting and eternal, and
      continual, and, as one might say, the—continued—yes, the
      continued and continuous, bitter, harassing, disturbing, and, if I may be
      allowed the expression, the very disturbing influence of the serene, and
      godlike, and heavenly, and exalted, and elevated, and purifying effect of
      what may be rightly termed the most enviable, the most truly enviable—nay!
      the most benignly beautiful, the most deliciously ethereal, and, as it
      were, the most pretty (if I may use so bold an expression) thing (pardon
      me, gentle reader!) in the world—but I am always led away by my
      feelings. In such a mind, I repeat, what a host of recollections are
      stirred up by a trifle! The dogs danced! I—I could not! They frisked—I
      wept. They capered—I sobbed aloud. Touching circumstances! which
      cannot fail to bring to the recollection of the classical reader that
      exquisite passage in relation to the fitness of things, which is to be
      found in the commencement of the third volume of that admirable and
      venerable Chinese novel the Jo-Go-Slow.
    </p>
<p>
      In my solitary walk through, the city I had two humble but faithful
      companions. Diana, my poodle! sweetest of creatures! She had a quantity of
      hair over her one eye, and a blue ribband tied fashionably around her
      neck. Diana was not more than five inches in height, but her head was
      somewhat bigger than her body, and her tail being cut off exceedingly
      close, gave an air of injured innocence to the interesting animal which
      rendered her a favorite with all.
    </p>
<p>
      And Pompey, my negro!—sweet Pompey! how shall I ever forget thee? I
      had taken Pompey’s arm. He was three feet in height (I like to be
      particular) and about seventy, or perhaps eighty, years of age. He had
      bow-legs and was corpulent. His mouth should not be called small, nor his
      ears short. His teeth, however, were like pearl, and his large full eyes
      were deliciously white. Nature had endowed him with no neck, and had
      placed his ankles (as usual with that race) in the middle of the upper
      portion of the feet. He was clad with a striking simplicity. His sole
      garments were a stock of nine inches in height, and a nearly—new
      drab overcoat which had formerly been in the service of the tall, stately,
      and illustrious Dr. Moneypenny. It was a good overcoat. It was well cut.
      It was well made. The coat was nearly new. Pompey held it up out of the
      dirt with both hands.
    </p>
<p>
      There were three persons in our party, and two of them have already been
      the subject of remark. There was a third—that person was myself. I
      am the Signora Psyche Zenobia. I am not Suky Snobbs. My appearance is
      commanding. On the memorable occasion of which I speak I was habited in a
      crimson satin dress, with a sky-blue Arabian mantelet. And the dress had
      trimmings of green agraffas, and seven graceful flounces of the
      orange-colored auricula. I thus formed the third of the party. There was
      the poodle. There was Pompey. There was myself. We were three. Thus it is
      said there were originally but three Furies—Melty, Nimmy, and Hetty—Meditation,
      Memory, and Fiddling.
    </p>
<p>
      Leaning upon the arm of the gallant Pompey, and attended at a respectable
      distance by Diana, I proceeded down one of the populous and very pleasant
      streets of the now deserted Edina. On a sudden, there presented itself to
      view a church—a Gothic cathedral—vast, venerable, and with a
      tall steeple, which towered into the sky. What madness now possessed me?
      Why did I rush upon my fate? I was seized with an uncontrollable desire to
      ascend the giddy pinnacle, and then survey the immense extent of the city.
      The door of the cathedral stood invitingly open. My destiny prevailed. I
      entered the ominous archway. Where then was my guardian angel?—if
      indeed such angels there be. If! Distressing monosyllable! what world of
      mystery, and meaning, and doubt, and uncertainty is there involved in thy
      two letters! I entered the ominous archway! I entered; and, without injury
      to my orange-colored auriculas, I passed beneath the portal, and emerged
      within the vestibule. Thus it is said the immense river Alfred passed,
      unscathed, and unwetted, beneath the sea.
    </p>
<p>
      I thought the staircase would never have an end. Round! Yes, they went
      round and up, and round and up and round and up, until I could not help
      surmising, with the sagacious Pompey, upon whose supporting arm I leaned
      in all the confidence of early affection—I could not help surmising
      that the upper end of the continuous spiral ladder had been accidentally,
      or perhaps designedly, removed. I paused for breath; and, in the meantime,
      an accident occurred of too momentous a nature in a moral, and also in a
      metaphysical point of view, to be passed over without notice. It appeared
      to me—indeed I was quite confident of the fact—I could not be
      mistaken—no! I had, for some moments, carefully and anxiously
      observed the motions of my Diana—I say that I could not be mistaken—Diana
      smelt a rat! At once I called Pompey’s attention to the subject, and
      he—he agreed with me. There was then no longer any reasonable room
      for doubt. The rat had been smelled—and by Diana. Heavens! shall I
      ever forget the intense excitement of the moment? Alas! what is the
      boasted intellect of man? The rat!—it was there—that is to
      say, it was somewhere. Diana smelled the rat. I—I could not! Thus it
      is said the Prussian Isis has, for some persons, a sweet and very powerful
      perfume, while to others it is perfectly scentless.
    </p>
<p>
      The staircase had been surmounted, and there were now only three or four
      more upward steps intervening between us and the summit. We still
      ascended, and now only one step remained. One step! One little, little
      step! Upon one such little step in the great staircase of human life how
      vast a sum of human happiness or misery depends! I thought of myself, then
      of Pompey, and then of the mysterious and inexplicable destiny which
      surrounded us. I thought of Pompey!—alas, I thought of love! I
      thought of my many false steps which have been taken, and may be taken
      again. I resolved to be more cautious, more reserved. I abandoned the arm
      of Pompey, and, without his assistance, surmounted the one remaining step,
      and gained the chamber of the belfry. I was followed immediately afterward
      by my poodle. Pompey alone remained behind. I stood at the head of the
      staircase, and encouraged him to ascend. He stretched forth to me his
      hand, and unfortunately in so doing was forced to abandon his firm hold
      upon the overcoat. Will the gods never cease their persecution? The
      overcoat is dropped, and, with one of his feet, Pompey stepped upon the
      long and trailing skirt of the overcoat. He stumbled and fell—this
      consequence was inevitable. He fell forward, and, with his accursed head,
      striking me full in the—in the breast, precipitated me headlong,
      together with himself, upon the hard, filthy, and detestable floor of the
      belfry. But my revenge was sure, sudden, and complete. Seizing him
      furiously by the wool with both hands, I tore out a vast quantity of
      black, and crisp, and curling material, and tossed it from me with every
      manifestation of disdain. It fell among the ropes of the belfry and
      remained. Pompey arose, and said no word. But he regarded me piteously
      with his large eyes and—sighed. Ye Gods—that sigh! It sunk
      into my heart. And the hair—the wool! Could I have reached that wool
      I would have bathed it with my tears, in testimony of regret. But alas! it
      was now far beyond my grasp. As it dangled among the cordage of the bell,
      I fancied it alive. I fancied that it stood on end with indignation. Thus
      the happy-dandy Flos Aeris of Java bears, it is said, a beautiful flower,
      which will live when pulled up by the roots. The natives suspend it by a
      cord from the ceiling and enjoy its fragrance for years.
    </p>
<p>
      Our quarrel was now made up, and we looked about the room for an aperture
      through which to survey the city of Edina. Windows there were none. The
      sole light admitted into the gloomy chamber proceeded from a square
      opening, about a foot in diameter, at a height of about seven feet from
      the floor. Yet what will the energy of true genius not effect? I resolved
      to clamber up to this hole. A vast quantity of wheels, pinions, and other
      cabalistic—looking machinery stood opposite the hole, close to it;
      and through the hole there passed an iron rod from the machinery. Between
      the wheels and the wall where the hole lay there was barely room for my
      body—yet I was desperate, and determined to persevere. I called
      Pompey to my side.
    </p>
<p>
      “You perceive that aperture, Pompey. I wish to look through it. You
      will stand here just beneath the hole—so. Now, hold out one of your
      hands, Pompey, and let me step upon it—thus. Now, the other hand,
      Pompey, and with its aid I will get upon your shoulders.”
    </p>
<p>
      He did every thing I wished, and I found, upon getting up, that I could
      easily pass my head and neck through the aperture. The prospect was
      sublime. Nothing could be more magnificent. I merely paused a moment to
      bid Diana behave herself, and assure Pompey that I would be considerate
      and bear as lightly as possible upon his shoulders. I told him I would be
      tender of his feelings—ossi tender que beefsteak. Having done this
      justice to my faithful friend, I gave myself up with great zest and
      enthusiasm to the enjoyment of the scene which so obligingly spread itself
      out before my eyes.
    </p>
<p>
      Upon this subject, however, I shall forbear to dilate. I will not describe
      the city of Edinburgh. Every one has been to the city of Edinburgh. Every
      one has been to Edinburgh—the classic Edina. I will confine myself
      to the momentous details of my own lamentable adventure. Having, in some
      measure, satisfied my curiosity in regard to the extent, situation, and
      general appearance of the city, I had leisure to survey the church in
      which I was, and the delicate architecture of the steeple. I observed that
      the aperture through which I had thrust my head was an opening in the
      dial-plate of a gigantic clock, and must have appeared, from the street,
      as a large key-hole, such as we see in the face of the French watches. No
      doubt the true object was to admit the arm of an attendant, to adjust,
      when necessary, the hands of the clock from within. I observed also, with
      surprise, the immense size of these hands, the longest of which could not
      have been less than ten feet in length, and, where broadest, eight or nine
      inches in breadth. They were of solid steel apparently, and their edges
      appeared to be sharp. Having noticed these particulars, and some others, I
      again turned my eyes upon the glorious prospect below, and soon became
      absorbed in contemplation.
    </p>
<p>
      From this, after some minutes, I was aroused by the voice of Pompey, who
      declared that he could stand it no longer, and requested that I would be
      so kind as to come down. This was unreasonable, and I told him so in a
      speech of some length. He replied, but with an evident misunderstanding of
      my ideas upon the subject. I accordingly grew angry, and told him in plain
      words, that he was a fool, that he had committed an ignoramus
      e-clench-eye, that his notions were mere insommary Bovis, and his words
      little better than an ennemywerrybor’em. With this he appeared
      satisfied, and I resumed my contemplations.
    </p>
<p>
      It might have been half an hour after this altercation when, as I was
      deeply absorbed in the heavenly scenery beneath me, I was startled by
      something very cold which pressed with a gentle pressure on the back of my
      neck. It is needless to say that I felt inexpressibly alarmed. I knew that
      Pompey was beneath my feet, and that Diana was sitting, according to my
      explicit directions, upon her hind legs, in the farthest corner of the
      room. What could it be? Alas! I but too soon discovered. Turning my head
      gently to one side, I perceived, to my extreme horror, that the huge,
      glittering, scimetar-like minute-hand of the clock had, in the course of
      its hourly revolution, descended upon my neck. There was, I knew, not a
      second to be lost. I pulled back at once—but it was too late. There
      was no chance of forcing my head through the mouth of that terrible trap
      in which it was so fairly caught, and which grew narrower and narrower
      with a rapidity too horrible to be conceived. The agony of that moment is
      not to be imagined. I threw up my hands and endeavored, with all my
      strength, to force upward the ponderous iron bar. I might as well have
      tried to lift the cathedral itself. Down, down, down it came, closer and
      yet closer. I screamed to Pompey for aid; but he said that I had hurt his
      feelings by calling him ‘an ignorant old squint-eye:’ I yelled
      to Diana; but she only said ‘bow-wow-wow,’ and that I had told
      her ‘on no account to stir from the corner.’ Thus I had no
      relief to expect from my associates.
    </p>
<p>
      Meantime the ponderous and terrific Scythe of Time (for I now discovered
      the literal import of that classical phrase) had not stopped, nor was it
      likely to stop, in its career. Down and still down, it came. It had
      already buried its sharp edge a full inch in my flesh, and my sensations
      grew indistinct and confused. At one time I fancied myself in Philadelphia
      with the stately Dr. Moneypenny, at another in the back parlor of Mr.
      Blackwood receiving his invaluable instructions. And then again the sweet
      recollection of better and earlier times came over me, and I thought of
      that happy period when the world was not all a desert, and Pompey not
      altogether cruel.
    </p>
<p>
      The ticking of the machinery amused me. Amused me, I say, for my
      sensations now bordered upon perfect happiness, and the most trifling
      circumstances afforded me pleasure. The eternal click-clak, click-clak,
      click-clak of the clock was the most melodious of music in my ears, and
      occasionally even put me in mind of the graceful sermonic harangues of Dr.
      Ollapod. Then there were the great figures upon the dial-plate—how
      intelligent how intellectual, they all looked! And presently they took to
      dancing the Mazurka, and I think it was the figure V. who performed the
      most to my satisfaction. She was evidently a lady of breeding. None of
      your swaggerers, and nothing at all indelicate in her motions. She did the
      pirouette to admiration—whirling round upon her apex. I made an
      endeavor to hand her a chair, for I saw that she appeared fatigued with
      her exertions—and it was not until then that I fully perceived my
      lamentable situation. Lamentable indeed! The bar had buried itself two
      inches in my neck. I was aroused to a sense of exquisite pain. I prayed
      for death, and, in the agony of the moment, could not help repeating those
      exquisite verses of the poet Miguel De Cervantes:
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     Vanny Buren, tan escondida

     Query no te senty venny

     Pork and pleasure, delly morry

     Nommy, torny, darry, widdy!
</pre>
<p>
      But now a new horror presented itself, and one indeed sufficient to
      startle the strongest nerves. My eyes, from the cruel pressure of the
      machine, were absolutely starting from their sockets. While I was thinking
      how I should possibly manage without them, one actually tumbled out of my
      head, and, rolling down the steep side of the steeple, lodged in the rain
      gutter which ran along the eaves of the main building. The loss of the eye
      was not so much as the insolent air of independence and contempt with
      which it regarded me after it was out. There it lay in the gutter just
      under my nose, and the airs it gave itself would have been ridiculous had
      they not been disgusting. Such a winking and b2150linking were never
      before seen. This behavior on the part of my eye in the gutter was not
      only irritating on account of its manifest insolence and shameful
      ingratitude, but was also exceedingly inconvenient on account of the
      sympathy which always exists between two eyes of the same head, however
      far apart. I was forced, in a manner, to wink and to b2150link, whether I
      would or not, in exact concert with the scoundrelly thing that lay just
      under my nose. I was presently relieved, however, by the dropping out of
      the other eye. In falling it took the same direction (possibly a concerted
      plot) as its fellow. Both rolled out of the gutter together, and in truth
      I was very glad to get rid of them.
    </p>
<p>
      The bar was now four inches and a half deep in my neck, and there was only
      a little bit of skin to cut through. My sensations were those of entire
      happiness, for I felt that in a few minutes, at farthest, I should be
      relieved from my disagreeable situation. And in this expectation I was not
      at all deceived. At twenty-five minutes past five in the afternoon,
      precisely, the huge minute-hand had proceeded sufficiently far on its
      terrible revolution to sever the small remainder of my neck. I was not
      sorry to see the head which had occasioned me so much embarrassment at
      length make a final separation from my body. It first rolled down the side
      of the steeple, then lodge, for a few seconds, in the gutter, and then
      made its way, with a plunge, into the middle of the street.
    </p>
<p>
      I will candidly confess that my feelings were now of the most singular—nay,
      of the most mysterious, the most perplexing and incomprehensible
      character. My senses were here and there at one and the same moment. With
      my head I imagined, at one time, that I, the head, was the real Signora
      Psyche Zenobia—at another I felt convinced that myself, the body,
      was the proper identity. To clear my ideas on this topic I felt in my
      pocket for my snuff-box, but, upon getting it, and endeavoring to apply a
      pinch of its grateful contents in the ordinary manner, I became
      immediately aware of my peculiar deficiency, and threw the box at once
      down to my head. It took a pinch with great satisfaction, and smiled me an
      acknowledgement in return. Shortly afterward it made me a speech, which I
      could hear but indistinctly without ears. I gathered enough, however, to
      know that it was astonished at my wishing to remain alive under such
      circumstances. In the concluding sentences it quoted the noble words of
      Ariosto—
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     Il pover hommy che non sera corty
</pre>
<p>
      And have a combat tenty erry morty; thus comparing me to the hero who, in
      the heat of the combat, not perceiving that he was dead, continued to
      contest the battle with inextinguishable valor. There was nothing now to
      prevent my getting down from my elevation, and I did so. What it was that
      Pompey saw so very peculiar in my appearance I have never yet been able to
      find out. The fellow opened his mouth from ear to ear, and shut his two
      eyes as if he were endeavoring to crack nuts between the lids. Finally,
      throwing off his overcoat, he made one spring for the staircase and
      disappeared. I hurled after the scoundrel these vehement words of
      Demosthenes—
    </p>
<p>
      Andrew O’Phlegethon, you really make haste to fly, and then turned
      to the darling of my heart, to the one-eyed! the shaggy-haired Diana.
      Alas! what a horrible vision affronted my eyes? Was that a rat I saw
      skulking into his hole? Are these the picked bones of the little angel who
      has been cruelly devoured by the monster? Ye gods! and what do I behold—is
      that the departed spirit, the shade, the ghost, of my beloved puppy, which
      I perceive sitting with a grace so melancholy, in the corner? Hearken! for
      she speaks, and, heavens! it is in the German of Schiller—
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
      “Unt stubby duk, so stubby dun
       Duk she! duk she!”

      Alas! and are not her words too true?

      “And if I died, at least I died
       For thee—for thee.”
 </pre>
<p>
      Sweet creature! she too has sacrificed herself in my behalf. Dogless,
      niggerless, headless, what now remains for the unhappy Signora Psyche
      Zenobia? Alas—nothing! I have done.
    </p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
