

<h1>
      THE WORKS OF EDGAR ALLAN POE
    </h1>
<h4>
      IN FIVE VOLUMES
    </h4>
<h2>
      VOLUME FOUR
    </h2>
<p>
<br/>
</p>
<h3>
      The Raven Edition
    </h3>
<p>
<br/> <br/>
</p>
<hr/>
<p>
<br/> <br/>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<big><b>CONTENTS</b></big>
</p>
<p>
<br/>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2150link2H_4_0001"> THE DEVIL IN THE BELFRY </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2150link2H_4_0002"> LIONIZING </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2150link2H_4_0003"> X-ING A PARAGRAPH </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2150link2H_4_0004"> METZENGERSTEIN </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2150link2H_4_0005"> THE SYSTEM OF DOCTOR TARR AND PROFESSOR
      FETHER </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2150link2H_4_0005a"> THE LITERARY LIFE OF THINGUM BOB, ESQ. </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2150link2H_4_0006"> HOW TO WRITE A BLACKWOOD ARTICLE. </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2150link2H_4_0007"> A PREDICAMENT </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2150link2H_4_0008"> MYSTIFICATION </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2150link2H_4_0009"> DIDDLING </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2150link2H_4_0010"> THE ANGEL OF THE ODD </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2150link2H_4_0011"> MELLONTA TAUTA </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2150link2H_4_0012"> THE DUC DE L’OMELETTE. </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2150link2H_4_0013"> THE OBLONG BOX. </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2150link2H_4_0014"> LOSS OF BREATH </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2150link2H_4_0015"> THE MAN THAT WAS USED UP. </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2150link2H_4_0016"> THE BUSINESS MAN </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2150link2H_4_0017"> THE LANDSCAPE GARDEN </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2150link2H_4_0018"> MAELZEL’S CHESS-PLAYER </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2150link2H_4_0019"> THE POWER OF WORDS </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2150link2H_4_0020"> THE COLLOQUY OF MONOS AND UNA </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2150link2H_4_0021"> THE CONVERSATION OF EIROS AND CHARMION </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2150link2H_4_0022"> SHADOW—A PARABLE </a>
</p>
<p>
<br/> <br/>
</p>
<hr/>
<p>
<br/> <br/> <a name="2150link2H_4_0001">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      THE DEVIL IN THE BELFRY
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     What o’clock is it?—<i>Old Saying</i>.
</pre>
<p>
      EVERYBODY knows, in a general way, that the finest place in the world is—or,
      alas, was—the Dutch borough of Vondervotteimittiss. Yet as it lies
      some distance from any of the main roads, being in a somewhat
      out-of-the-way situation, there are perhaps very few of my readers who
      have ever paid it a visit. For the benefit of those who have not,
      therefore, it will be only proper that I should enter into some account of
      it. And this is indeed the more necessary, as with the hope of enlisting
      public sympathy in behalf of the inhabitants, I design here to give a
      history of the calamitous events which have so lately occurred within its
      limits. No one who knows me will doubt that the duty thus self-imposed
      will be executed to the best of my ability, with all that rigid
      impartiality, all that cautious examination into facts, and diligent
      collation of authorities, which should ever distinguish him who aspires to
      the title of historian.
    </p>
<p>
      By the united aid of medals, manuscripts, and inscriptions, I am enabled
      to say, positively, that the borough of Vondervotteimittiss has existed,
      from its origin, in precisely the same condition which it at present
      preserves. Of the date of this origin, however, I grieve that I can only
      speak with that species of indefinite definiteness which mathematicians
      are, at times, forced to put up with in certain algebraic formulae. The
      date, I may thus say, in regard to the remoteness of its antiquity, cannot
      be less than any assignable quantity whatsoever.
    </p>
<p>
      Touching the derivation of the name Vondervotteimittiss, I confess myself,
      with sorrow, equally at fault. Among a multitude of opinions upon this
      delicate point—some acute, some learned, some sufficiently the
      reverse—I am able to select nothing which ought to be considered
      satisfactory. Perhaps the idea of Grogswigg—nearly coincident with
      that of Kroutaplenttey—is to be cautiously preferred.—It runs:—“Vondervotteimittis—Vonder,
      lege Donder—Votteimittis, quasi und Bleitziz—Bleitziz obsol:—pro
      Blitzen.” This derivative, to say the truth, is still countenanced
      by some traces of the electric fluid evident on the summit of the steeple
      of the House of the Town-Council. I do not choose, however, to commit
      myself on a theme of such importance, and must refer the reader desirous
      of information to the “Oratiunculae de Rebus Praeter-Veteris,”
      of Dundergutz. See, also, Blunderbuzzard “De Derivationibus,”
      pp. 27 to 5010, Folio, Gothic edit., Red and Black character, Catch-word
      and No Cypher; wherein consult, also, marginal notes in the autograph of
      Stuffundpuff, with the Sub-Commentaries of Gruntundguzzell.
    </p>
<p>
      Notwithstanding the obscurity which thus envelops the date of the
      foundation of Vondervotteimittis, and the derivation of its name, there
      can be no doubt, as I said before, that it has always existed as we find
      it at this epoch. The oldest man in the borough can remember not the
      slightest difference in the appearance of any portion of it; and, indeed,
      the very suggestion of such a possibility is considered an insult. The
      site of the village is in a perfectly circular valley, about a quarter of
      a mile in circumference, and entirely surrounded by gentle hills, over
      whose summit the people have never yet ventured to pass. For this they
      assign the very good reason that they do not believe there is anything at
      all on the other side.
    </p>
<p>
      Round the skirts of the valley (which is quite level, and paved throughout
      with flat tiles), extends a continuous row of sixty little houses. These,
      having their backs on the hills, must look, of course, to the centre of
      the plain, which is just sixty yards from the front door of each dwelling.
      Every house has a small garden before it, with a circular path, a
      sun-dial, and twenty-four cabbages. The buildings themselves are so
      precisely alike, that one can in no manner be distinguished from the
      other. Owing to the vast antiquity, the style of architecture is somewhat
      odd, but it is not for that reason the less strikingly picturesque. They
      are fashioned of hard-burned little bricks, red, with black ends, so that
      the walls look like a chess-board upon a great scale. The gables are
      turned to the front, and there are cornices, as big as all the rest of the
      house, over the eaves and over the main doors. The windows are narrow and
      deep, with very tiny panes and a great deal of sash. On the roof is a vast
      quantity of tiles with long curly ears. The woodwork, throughout, is of a
      dark hue and there is much carving about it, with but a trifling variety
      of pattern for, time out of mind, the carvers of Vondervotteimittiss have
      never been able to carve more than two objects—a time-piece and a
      cabbage. But these they do exceedingly well, and intersperse them, with
      singular ingenuity, wherever they find room for the chisel.
    </p>
<p>
      The dwellings are as much alike inside as out, and the furniture is all
      upon one plan. The floors are of square tiles, the chairs and tables of
      black-looking wood with thin crooked legs and puppy feet. The mantelpieces
      are wide and high, and have not only time-pieces and cabbages sculptured
      over the front, but a real time-piece, which makes a prodigious ticking,
      on the top in the middle, with a flower-pot containing a cabbage standing
      on each extremity by way of outrider. Between each cabbage and the
      time-piece, again, is a little China man having a large stomach with a
      great round hole in it, through which is seen the dial-plate of a watch.
    </p>
<p>
      The fireplaces are large and deep, with fierce crooked-looking fire-dogs.
      There is constantly a rousing fire, and a huge pot over it, full of
      sauer-kraut and pork, to which the good woman of the house is always busy
      in attending. She is a little fat old lady, with blue eyes and a red face,
      and wears a huge cap like a sugar-loaf, ornamented with purple and yellow
      ribbons. Her dress is of orange-colored linsey-woolsey, made very full
      behind and very short in the waist—and indeed very short in other
      respects, not reaching below the middle of her leg. This is somewhat
      thick, and so are her ankles, but she has a fine pair of green stockings
      to cover them. Her shoes—of pink leather—are fastened each
      with a bunch of yellow ribbons puckered up in the shape of a cabbage. In
      her left hand she has a little heavy Dutch watch; in her right she wields
      a ladle for the sauerkraut and pork. By her side there stands a fat tabby
      cat, with a gilt toy-repeater tied to its tail, which “the boys”
      have there fastened by way of a quiz.
    </p>
<p>
      The boys themselves are, all three of them, in the garden attending the
      pig. They are each two feet in height. They have three-cornered cocked
      hats, purple waistcoats reaching down to their thighs, buckskin
      knee-breeches, red stockings, heavy shoes with big silver buckles, long
      surtout coats with large buttons of mother-of-pearl. Each, too, has a pipe
      in his mouth, and a little dumpy watch in his right hand. He takes a puff
      and a look, and then a look and a puff. The pig—which is corpulent
      and lazy—is occupied now in picking up the stray leaves that fall
      from the cabbages, and now in giving a kick behind at the gilt repeater,
      which the urchins have also tied to his tail in order to make him look as
      handsome as the cat.
    </p>
<p>
      Right at the front door, in a high-backed leather-bottomed armed chair,
      with crooked legs and puppy feet like the tables, is seated the old man of
      the house himself. He is an exceedingly puffy little old gentleman, with
      big circular eyes and a huge double chin. His dress resembles that of the
      boys—and I need say nothing farther about it. All the difference is,
      that his pipe is somewhat bigger than theirs and he can make a greater
      smoke. Like them, he has a watch, but he carries his watch in his pocket.
      To say the truth, he has something of more importance than a watch to
      attend to—and what that is, I shall presently explain. He sits with
      his right leg upon his left knee, wears a grave countenance, and always
      keeps one of his eyes, at least, resolutely bent upon a certain remarkable
      object in the centre of the plain.
    </p>
<p>
      This object is situated in the steeple of the House of the Town Council.
      The Town Council are all very little, round, oily, intelligent men, with
      big saucer eyes and fat double chins, and have their coats much longer and
      their shoe-buckles much bigger than the ordinary inhabitants of
      Vondervotteimittiss. Since my sojourn in the borough, they have had
      several special meetings, and have adopted these three important
      resolutions:
    </p>
<p>
      “That it is wrong to alter the good old course of things:”
    </p>
<p>
      “That there is nothing tolerable out of Vondervotteimittiss:”
      and—
    </p>
<p>
      “That we will stick by our clocks and our cabbages.”
    </p>
<p>
      Above the session-room of the Council is the steeple, and in the steeple
      is the belfry, where exists, and has existed time out of mind, the pride
      and wonder of the village—the great clock of the borough of
      Vondervotteimittiss. And this is the object to which the eyes of the old
      gentlemen are turned who sit in the leather-bottomed arm-chairs.
    </p>
<p>
      The great clock has seven faces—one in each of the seven sides of
      the steeple—so that it can be readily seen from all quarters. Its
      faces are large and white, and its hands heavy and black. There is a
      belfry-man whose sole duty is to attend to it; but this duty is the most
      perfect of sinecures—for the clock of Vondervotteimittis was never
      yet known to have anything the matter with it. Until lately, the bare
      supposition of such a thing was considered heretical. From the remotest
      period of antiquity to which the archives have reference, the hours have
      been regularly struck by the big bell. And, indeed the case was just the
      same with all the other clocks and watches in the borough. Never was such
      a place for keeping the true time. When the large clapper thought proper
      to say “Twelve o’clock!” all its obedient followers
      opened their throats simultaneously, and responded like a very echo. In
      short, the good burghers were fond of their sauer-kraut, but then they
      were proud of their clocks.
    </p>
<p>
      All people who hold sinecure offices are held in more or less respect, and
      as the belfry—man of Vondervotteimittiss has the most perfect of
      sinecures, he is the most perfectly respected of any man in the world. He
      is the chief dignitary of the borough, and the very pigs look up to him
      with a sentiment of reverence. His coat-tail is very far longer—his
      pipe, his shoe—buckles, his eyes, and his stomach, very far bigger—than
      those of any other old gentleman in the village; and as to his chin, it is
      not only double, but triple.
    </p>
<p>
      I have thus painted the happy estate of Vondervotteimittiss: alas, that so
      fair a picture should ever experience a reverse!
    </p>
<p>
      There has been long a saying among the wisest inhabitants, that “no
      good can come from over the hills”; and it really seemed that the
      words had in them something of the spirit of prophecy. It wanted five
      minutes of noon, on the day before yesterday, when there appeared a very
      odd-looking object on the summit of the ridge of the eastward. Such an
      occurrence, of course, attracted universal attention, and every little old
      gentleman who sat in a leather-bottomed arm-chair turned one of his eyes
      with a stare of dismay upon the phenomenon, still keeping the other upon
      the clock in the steeple.
    </p>
<p>
      By the time that it wanted only three minutes to noon, the droll object in
      question was perceived to be a very diminutive foreign-looking young man.
      He descended the hills at a great rate, so that every body had soon a good
      look at him. He was really the most finicky little personage that had ever
      been seen in Vondervotteimittiss. His countenance was of a dark
      snuff-color, and he had a long hooked nose, pea eyes, a wide mouth, and an
      excellent set of teeth, which latter he seemed anxious of displaying, as
      he was grinning from ear to ear. What with mustachios and whiskers, there
      was none of the rest of his face to be seen. His head was uncovered, and
      his hair neatly done up in papillotes. His dress was a tight-fitting
      swallow-tailed black coat (from one of whose pockets dangled a vast length
      of white handkerchief), black kerseymere knee-breeches, black stockings,
      and stumpy-looking pumps, with huge bunches of black satin ribbon for
      bows. Under one arm he carried a huge chapeau-de-bras, and under the other
      a fiddle nearly five times as big as himself. In his left hand was a gold
      snuff-box, from which, as he capered down the hill, cutting all manner of
      fantastic steps, he took snuff incessantly with an air of the greatest
      possible self-satisfaction. God bless me!—here was a sight for the
      honest burghers of Vondervotteimittiss!
    </p>
<p>
      To speak plainly, the fellow had, in spite of his grinning, an audacious
      and sinister kind of face; and as he curvetted right into the village, the
      old stumpy appearance of his pumps excited no little suspicion; and many a
      burgher who beheld him that day would have given a trifle for a peep
      beneath the white cambric handkerchief which hung so obtrusively from the
      pocket of his swallow-tailed coat. But what mainly occasioned a righteous
      indignation was, that the scoundrelly popinjay, while he cut a fandango
      here, and a whirligig there, did not seem to have the remotest idea in the
      world of such a thing as keeping time in his steps.
    </p>
<p>
      The good people of the borough had scarcely a chance, however, to get
      their eyes thoroughly open, when, just as it wanted half a minute of noon,
      the rascal bounced, as I say, right into the midst of them; gave a chassez
      here, and a balancez there; and then, after a pirouette and a
      pas-de-zephyr, pigeon-winged himself right up into the belfry of the House
      of the Town Council, where the wonder-stricken belfry-man sat smoking in a
      state of dignity and dismay. But the little chap seized him at once by the
      nose; gave it a swing and a pull; clapped the big chapeau de-bras upon his
      head; knocked it down over his eyes and mouth; and then, lifting up the
      big fiddle, beat him with it so long and so soundly, that what with the
      belfry-man being so fat, and the fiddle being so hollow, you would have
      sworn that there was a regiment of double-bass drummers all beating the
      devil’s tattoo up in the belfry of the steeple of
      Vondervotteimittiss.
    </p>
<p>
      There is no knowing to what desperate act of vengeance this unprincipled
      attack might have aroused the inhabitants, but for the important fact that
      it now wanted only half a second of noon. The bell was about to strike,
      and it was a matter of absolute and pre-eminent necessity that every body
      should look well at his watch. It was evident, however, that just at this
      moment the fellow in the steeple was doing something that he had no
      business to do with the clock. But as it now began to strike, nobody had
      any time to attend to his manoeuvres, for they had all to count the
      strokes of the bell as it sounded.
    </p>
<p>
      “One!” said the clock.
    </p>
<p>
      “Von!” echoed every little old gentleman in every
      leather-bottomed arm-chair in Vondervotteimittiss. “Von!” said
      his watch also; “von!” said the watch of his vrow; and “von!”
      said the watches of the boys, and the little gilt repeaters on the tails
      of the cat and pig.
    </p>
<p>
      “Two!” continued the big bell; and
    </p>
<p>
      “Doo!” repeated all the repeaters.
    </p>
<p>
      “Three! Four! Five! Six! Seven! Eight! Nine! Ten!” said the
      bell.
    </p>
<p>
      “Dree! Vour! Fibe! Sax! Seben! Aight! Noin! Den!” answered the
      others.
    </p>
<p>
      “Eleven!” said the big one.
    </p>
<p>
      “Eleben!” assented the little ones.
    </p>
<p>
      “Twelve!” said the bell.
    </p>
<p>
      “Dvelf!” they replied perfectly satisfied, and dropping their
      voices.
    </p>
<p>
      “Und dvelf it is!” said all the little old gentlemen, putting
      up their watches. But the big bell had not done with them yet.
    </p>
<p>
      “Thirteen!” said he.
    </p>
<p>
      “Der Teufel!” gasped the little old gentlemen, turning pale,
      dropping their pipes, and putting down all their right legs from over
      their left knees.
    </p>
<p>
      “Der Teufel!” groaned they, “Dirteen! Dirteen!!—Mein
      Gott, it is Dirteen o’clock!!”
    </p>
<p>
      Why attempt to describe the terrible scene which ensued? All
      Vondervotteimittiss flew at once into a lamentable state of uproar.
    </p>
<p>
      “Vot is cum’d to mein pelly?” roared all the boys—“I’ve
      been ongry for dis hour!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Vot is com’d to mein kraut?” screamed all the vrows,
      “It has been done to rags for this hour!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Vot is cum’d to mein pipe?” swore all the little old
      gentlemen, “Donder and Blitzen; it has been smoked out for dis hour!”—and
      they filled them up again in a great rage, and sinking back in their
      arm-chairs, puffed away so fast and so fiercely that the whole valley was
      immediately filled with impenetrable smoke.
    </p>
<p>
      Meantime the cabbages all turned very red in the face, and it seemed as if
      old Nick himself had taken possession of every thing in the shape of a
      timepiece. The clocks carved upon the furniture took to dancing as if
      bewitched, while those upon the mantel-pieces could scarcely contain
      themselves for fury, and kept such a continual striking of thirteen, and
      such a frisking and wriggling of their pendulums as was really horrible to
      see. But, worse than all, neither the cats nor the pigs could put up any
      longer with the behavior of the little repeaters tied to their tails, and
      resented it by scampering all over the place, scratching and poking, and
      squeaking and screeching, and caterwauling and squalling, and flying into
      the faces, and running under the petticoats of the people, and creating
      altogether the most abominable din and confusion which it is possible for
      a reasonable person to conceive. And to make matters still more
      distressing, the rascally little scape-grace in the steeple was evidently
      exerting himself to the utmost. Every now and then one might catch a
      glimpse of the scoundrel through the smoke. There he sat in the belfry
      upon the belfry-man, who was lying flat upon his back. In his teeth the
      villain held the bell-rope, which he kept jerking about with his head,
      raising such a clatter that my ears ring again even to think of it. On his
      lap lay the big fiddle, at which he was scraping, out of all time and
      tune, with both hands, making a great show, the nincompoop! of playing
      “Judy O’Flannagan and Paddy O’Rafferty.”
    </p>
<p>
      Affairs being thus miserably situated, I left the place in disgust, and
      now appeal for aid to all lovers of correct time and fine kraut. Let us
      proceed in a body to the borough, and restore the ancient order of things
      in Vondervotteimittiss by ejecting that little fellow from the steeple.
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2150link2H_4_0002">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      LIONIZING
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     ———— all people went
     Upon their ten toes in wild wonderment.

           —<i>Bishop Hall’s Satires</i>.
</pre>
<p>
      I am—that is to say I was—a great man; but I am neither the
      author of Junius nor the man in the mask; for my name, I believe, is
      Robert Jones, and I was born somewhere in the city of Fum-Fudge.
    </p>
<p>
      The first action of my life was the taking hold of my nose with both
      hands. My mother saw this and called me a genius: my father wept for joy
      and presented me with a treatise on Nosology. This I mastered before I was
      breeched.
    </p>
<p>
      I now began to feel my way in the science, and soon came to understand
      that, provided a man had a nose sufficiently conspicuous he might, by
      merely following it, arrive at a Lionship. But my attention was not
      confined to theories alone. Every morning I gave my proboscis a couple of
      pulls and swallowed a half dozen of drams.
    </p>
<p>
      When I came of age my father asked me, one day, If I would step with him
      into his study.
    </p>
<p>
      “My son,” said he, when we were seated, “what is the
      chief end of your existence?”
    </p>
<p>
      “My father,” I answered, “it is the study of Nosology.”
    </p>
<p>
      “And what, Robert,” he inquired, “is Nosology?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Sir,” I said, “it is the Science of Noses.”
    </p>
<p>
      “And can you tell me,” he demanded, “what is the meaning
      of a nose?”
    </p>
<p>
      “A nose, my father;” I replied, greatly softened, “has
      been variously defined by about a thousand different authors.” [Here
      I pulled out my watch.] “It is now noon or thereabouts—we
      shall have time enough to get through with them all before midnight. To
      commence then:—The nose, according to Bartholinus, is that
      protuberance—that bump—that excrescence—that—”
    </p>
<p>
      “Will do, Robert,” interrupted the good old gentleman. “I
      am thunderstruck at the extent of your information—I am positively—upon
      my soul.” [Here he closed his eyes and placed his hand upon his
      heart.] “Come here!” [Here he took me by the arm.] “Your
      education may now be considered as finished—it is high time you
      should scuffle for yourself—and you cannot do a better thing than
      merely follow your nose—so—so—so—” [Here he
      kicked me down stairs and out of the door]—“so get out of my
      house, and God bless you!”
    </p>
<p>
      As I felt within me the divine afflatus, I considered this accident rather
      fortunate than otherwise. I resolved to be guided by the paternal advice.
      I determined to follow my nose. I gave it a pull or two upon the spot, and
      wrote a pamphlet on Nosology forthwith.
    </p>
<p>
      All Fum-Fudge was in an uproar.
    </p>
<p>
      “Wonderful genius!” said the Quarterly.
    </p>
<p>
      “Superb physiologist!” said the Westminster.
    </p>
<p>
      “Clever fellow!” said the Foreign.
    </p>
<p>
      “Fine writer!” said the Edinburgh.
    </p>
<p>
      “Profound thinker!” said the Dublin.
    </p>
<p>
      “Great man!” said Bentley.
    </p>
<p>
      “Divine soul!” said Fraser.
    </p>
<p>
      “One of us!” said Blackwood.
    </p>
<p>
      “Who can he be?” said Mrs. Bas-Bleu.
    </p>
<p>
      “What can he be?” said big Miss Bas-Bleu.
    </p>
<p>
      “Where can he be?” said little Miss Bas-Bleu.—But I paid
      these people no attention whatever—I just stepped into the shop of
      an artist.
    </p>
<p>
      The Duchess of Bless-my-Soul was sitting for her portrait; the Marquis of
      So-and-So was holding the Duchess’ poodle; the Earl of This-and-That
      was flirting with her salts; and his Royal Highness of Touch-me-Not was
      leaning upon the back of her chair.
    </p>
<p>
      I approached the artist and turned up my nose.
    </p>
<p>
      “Oh, beautiful!” sighed her Grace.
    </p>
<p>
      “Oh my!” lisped the Marquis.
    </p>
<p>
      “Oh, shocking!” groaned the Earl.
    </p>
<p>
      “Oh, abominable!” growled his Royal Highness.
    </p>
<p>
      “What will you take for it?” asked the artist.
    </p>
<p>
      “For his nose!” shouted her Grace.
    </p>
<p>
      “A thousand pounds,” said I, sitting down.
    </p>
<p>
      “A thousand pounds?” inquired the artist, musingly.
    </p>
<p>
      “A thousand pounds,” said I.
    </p>
<p>
      “Beautiful!” said he, entranced.
    </p>
<p>
      “A thousand pounds,” said I.
    </p>
<p>
      “Do you warrant it?” he asked, turning the nose to the light.
    </p>
<p>
      “I do,” said I, blowing it well.
    </p>
<p>
      “Is it quite original?” he inquired; touching it with
      reverence.
    </p>
<p>
      “Humph!” said I, twisting it to one side.
    </p>
<p>
      “Has no copy been taken?” he demanded, surveying it through a
      microscope.
    </p>
<p>
      “None,” said I, turning it up.
    </p>
<p>
      “Admirable!” he ejaculated, thrown quite off his guard by the
      beauty of the manoeuvre.
    </p>
<p>
      “A thousand pounds,” said I.
    </p>
<p>
      “A thousand pounds?” said he.
    </p>
<p>
      “Precisely,” said I.
    </p>
<p>
      “A thousand pounds?” said he.
    </p>
<p>
      “Just so,” said I.
    </p>
<p>
      “You shall have them,” said he. “What a piece of virtu!”
      So he drew me a check upon the spot, and took a sketch of my nose. I
      engaged rooms in Jermyn street, and sent her Majesty the ninety-ninth
      edition of the “Nosology,” with a portrait of the proboscis.—That
      sad little rake, the Prince of Wales, invited me to dinner.
    </p>
<p>
      We were all lions and recherch?s.
    </p>
<p>
      There was a modern Platonist. He quoted Porphyry, Iamblicus, Plotinus,
      Proclus, Hierocles, Maximus Tyrius, and Syrianus.
    </p>
<p>
      There was a human-perfectibility man. He quoted Turgot, Price, Priestly,
      Condorcet, De Stael, and the “Ambitious Student in Ill Health.”
    </p>
<p>
      There was Sir Positive Paradox. He observed that all fools were
      philosophers, and that all philosophers were fools.
    </p>
<p>
      There was ?stheticus Ethix. He spoke of fire, unity, and atoms; bi-part
      and pre-existent soul; affinity and discord; primitive intelligence and
      hom?omeria.
    </p>
<p>
      There was Theologos Theology. He talked of Eusebius and Arianus; heresy
      and the Council of Nice; Puseyism and consubstantialism; Homousios and
      Homouioisios.
    </p>
<p>
      There was Fricass?e from the Rocher de Cancale. He mentioned Muriton of
      red tongue; cauliflowers with velout? sauce; veal ? la St. Menehoult;
      marinade ? la St. Florentin; and orange jellies en mos?iques.
    </p>
<p>
      There was Bibulus O’Bumper. He touched upon Latour and Markbr?nnen;
      upon Mousseux and Chambertin; upon Richbourg and St. George; upon
      Haubrion, Leonville, and Medoc; upon Barac and Preignac; upon Gr?ve, upon
      Sauterne, upon Lafitte, and upon St. Peray. He shook his head at Clos de
      Vougeot, and told, with his eyes shut, the difference between Sherry and
      Amontillado.
    </p>
<p>
      There was Signor Tintontintino from Florence. He discoursed of Cimabu?,
      Arpino, Carpaccio, and Argostino—of the gloom of Caravaggio, of the
      amenity of Albano, of the colors of Titian, of the frows of Rubens, and of
      the waggeries of Jan Steen.
    </p>
<p>
      There was the President of the Fum-Fudge University. He was of opinion
      that the moon was called Bendis in Thrace, Bubastis in Egypt, Dian in
      Rome, and Artemis in Greece. There was a Grand Turk from Stamboul. He
      could not help thinking that the angels were horses, cocks, and bulls;
      that somebody in the sixth heaven had seventy thousand heads; and that the
      earth was supported by a sky-blue cow with an incalculable number of green
      horns.
    </p>
<p>
      There was Delphinus Polyglott. He told us what had become of the
      eighty-three lost tragedies of ?schylus; of the fifty-four orations of
      Is?us; of the three hundred and ninety-one speeches of Lysias; of the
      hundred and eighty treatises of Theophrastus; of the eighth book of the
      conic sections of Apollonius; of Pindar’s hymns and dithyrambics;
      and of the five and forty tragedies of Homer Junior.
    </p>
<p>
      There was Ferdinand Fitz-Fossillus Feltspar. He informed us all about
      internal fires and tertiary formations; about ?eriforms, fluidiforms, and
      solidiforms; about quartz and marl; about schist and schorl; about gypsum
      and trap; about talc and calc; about blende and horn-blende; about
      mica-slate and pudding-stone; about cyanite and lepidolite; about hematite
      and tremolite; about antimony and calcedony; about manganese and whatever
      you please.
    </p>
<p>
      There was myself. I spoke of myself;—of myself, of myself, of
      myself;—of Nosology, of my pamphlet, and of myself. I turned up my
      nose, and I spoke of myself.
    </p>
<p>
      “Marvellous clever man!” said the Prince.
    </p>
<p>
      “Superb!” said his guests:—and next morning her Grace of
      Bless-my-Soul paid me a visit.
    </p>
<p>
      “Will you go to Almack’s, pretty creature?” she said,
      tapping me under the chin.
    </p>
<p>
      “Upon honor,” said I.
    </p>
<p>
      “Nose and all?” she asked.
    </p>
<p>
      “As I live,” I replied.
    </p>
<p>
      “Here then is a card, my life. Shall I say you will be there?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Dear Duchess, with all my heart.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Pshaw, no!—but with all your nose?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Every bit of it, my love,” said I: so I gave it a twist or
      two, and found myself at Almack’s. The rooms were crowded to
      suffocation.
    </p>
<p>
      “He is coming!” said somebody on the staircase.
    </p>
<p>
      “He is coming!” said somebody farther up.
    </p>
<p>
      “He is coming!” said somebody farther still.
    </p>
<p>
      “He is come!” exclaimed the Duchess. “He is come, the
      little love!”—and, seizing me firmly by both hands, she kissed
      me thrice upon the nose. A marked sensation immediately ensued.
    </p>
<p>
      “Diavolo!” cried Count Capricornutti.
    </p>
<p>
      “Dios guarda!” muttered Don Stiletto.
    </p>
<p>
      “Mille tonnerres!” ejaculated the Prince de Grenouille.
    </p>
<p>
      “Tousand teufel!” growled the Elector of Bluddennuff.
    </p>
<p>
      It was not to be borne. I grew angry. I turned short upon Bluddennuff.
    </p>
<p>
      “Sir!” said I to him, “you are a baboon.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Sir,” he replied, after a pause, “Donner und Blitzen!”
    </p>
<p>
      This was all that could be desired. We exchanged cards. At Chalk-Farm, the
      next morning, I shot off his nose—and then called upon my friends.
    </p>
<p>
      “B?te!” said the first.
    </p>
<p>
      “Fool!” said the second.
    </p>
<p>
      “Dolt!” said the third.
    </p>
<p>
      “Ass!” said the fourth.
    </p>
<p>
      “Ninny!” said the fifth.
    </p>
<p>
      “Noodle!” said the sixth.
    </p>
<p>
      “Be off!” said the seventh.
    </p>
<p>
      At all this I felt mortified, and so called upon my father.
    </p>
<p>
      “Father,” I asked, “what is the chief end of my
      existence?”
    </p>
<p>
      “My son,” he replied, “it is still the study of
      Nosology; but in hitting the Elector upon the nose you have overshot your
      mark. You have a fine nose, it is true; but then Bluddennuff has none. You
      are damned, and he has become the hero of the day. I grant you that in
      Fum-Fudge the greatness of a lion is in proportion to the size of his
      proboscis—but, good heavens! there is no competing with a lion who
      has no proboscis at all.”
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2150link2H_4_0003">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      X-ING A PARAGRAPH
    </h2>
<p>
      AS it is well known that the ‘wise men’ came ‘from the
      East,’ and as Mr. Touch-and-go Bullet-head came from the East, it
      follows that Mr. Bullet-head was a wise man; and if collateral proof of
      the matter be needed, here we have it—Mr. B. was an editor.
      Irascibility was his sole foible, for in fact the obstinacy of which men
      accused him was anything but his foible, since he justly considered it his
      forte. It was his strong point—his virtue; and it would have
      required all the logic of a Brownson to convince him that it was ‘anything
      else.’
    </p>
<p>
      I have shown that Touch-and-go Bullet-head was a wise man; and the only
      occasion on which he did not prove infallible, was when, abandoning that
      legitimate home for all wise men, the East, he migrated to the city of
      Alexander-the-Great-o-nopolis, or some place of a similar title, out West.
    </p>
<p>
      I must do him the justice to say, however, that when he made up his mind
      finally to settle in that town, it was under the impression that no
      newspaper, and consequently no editor, existed in that particular section
      of the country. In establishing ‘The Tea-Pot’ he expected to
      have the field all to himself. I feel confident he never would have
      dreamed of taking up his residence in Alexander-the-Great-o-nopolis had he
      been aware that, in Alexander-the-Great-o-nopolis, there lived a gentleman
      named John Smith (if I rightly remember), who for many years had there
      quietly grown fat in editing and publishing the ‘Alexander-the-Great-o-nopolis
      Gazette.’ It was solely, therefore, on account of having been
      misinformed, that Mr. Bullet-head found himself in Alex-suppose we call it
      Nopolis, ‘for short’—but, as he did find himself there,
      he determined to keep up his character for obst—for firmness, and
      remain. So remain he did; and he did more; he unpacked his press, type,
      etc., etc., rented an office exactly opposite to that of the ‘Gazette,’
      and, on the third morning after his arrival, issued the first number of
      ‘The Alexan’—that is to say, of ‘The Nopolis
      Tea-Pot’—as nearly as I can recollect, this was the name of
      the new paper.
    </p>
<p>
      The leading article, I must admit, was brilliant—not to say severe.
      It was especially bitter about things in general—and as for the
      editor of ‘The Gazette,’ he was torn all to pieces in
      particular. Some of Bullethead’s remarks were really so fiery that I
      have always, since that time, been forced to look upon John Smith, who is
      still alive, in the light of a salamander. I cannot pretend to give all
      the ‘Tea-Pot’s’ paragraphs verbatim, but one of them
      runs thus:
    </p>
<p>
      ‘Oh, yes!—Oh, we perceive! Oh, no doubt! The editor over the
      way is a genius—O, my! Oh, goodness, gracious!—what is this
      world coming to? Oh, tempora! Oh, Moses!’
    </p>
<p>
      A philippic at once so caustic and so classical, alighted like a bombshell
      among the hitherto peaceful citizens of Nopolis. Groups of excited
      individuals gathered at the corners of the streets. Every one awaited,
      with heartfelt anxiety, the reply of the dignified Smith. Next morning it
      appeared as follows:
    </p>
<p>
      ‘We quote from “The Tea-Pot” of yesterday the subjoined
      paragraph: “Oh, yes! Oh, we perceive! Oh, no doubt! Oh, my! Oh,
      goodness! Oh, tempora! Oh, Moses!” Why, the fellow is all O! That
      accounts for his reasoning in a circle, and explains why there is neither
      beginning nor end to him, nor to anything he says. We really do not
      believe the vagabond can write a word that hasn’t an O in it. Wonder
      if this O-ing is a habit of his? By-the-by, he came away from Down-East in
      a great hurry. Wonder if he O’s as much there as he does here?
      “O! it is pitiful.”’
    </p>
<p>
      The indignation of Mr. Bullet-head at these scandalous insinuations, I
      shall not attempt to describe. On the eel-skinning principle, however, he
      did not seem to be so much incensed at the attack upon his integrity as
      one might have imagined. It was the sneer at his style that drove him to
      desperation. What!—he Touch-and-go Bullet-head!—not able to
      write a word without an O in it! He would soon let the jackanapes see that
      he was mistaken. Yes! he would let him see how much he was mistaken, the
      puppy! He, Touch-and-go Bullet-head, of Frogpondium, would let Mr. John
      Smith perceive that he, Bullet-head, could indite, if it so pleased him, a
      whole paragraph—aye! a whole article—in which that
      contemptible vowel should not once—not even once—make its
      appearance. But no;—that would be yielding a point to the said John
      Smith. He, Bullet-head, would make no alteration in his style, to suit the
      caprices of any Mr. Smith in Christendom. Perish so vile a thought! The O
      forever; He would persist in the O. He would be as O-wy as O-wy could be.
    </p>
<p>
      Burning with the chivalry of this determination, the great Touch-and-go,
      in the next ‘Tea-Pot,’ came out merely with this simple but
      resolute paragraph, in reference to this unhappy affair:
    </p>
<p>
      ‘The editor of the “Tea-Pot” has the honor of advising
      the editor of the “Gazette” that he (the “Tea-Pot”)
      will take an opportunity in tomorrow morning’s paper, of convincing
      him (the “Gazette”) that he (the “Tea-Pot”) both
      can and will be his own master, as regards style; he (the “Tea-Pot”)
      intending to show him (the “Gazette”) the supreme, and indeed
      the withering contempt with which the criticism of him (the “Gazette”)
      inspires the independent bosom of him (the “TeaPot”) by
      composing for the especial gratification (?) of him (the “Gazette”)
      a leading article, of some extent, in which the beautiful vowel—the
      emblem of Eternity—yet so offensive to the hyper-exquisite delicacy
      of him (the “Gazette”) shall most certainly not be avoided by
      his (the “Gazette’s”) most obedient, humble servant, the
      “Tea-Pot.” “So much for Buckingham!”’
    </p>
<p>
      In fulfilment of the awful threat thus darkly intimated rather than
      decidedly enunciated, the great Bullet-head, turning a deaf ear to all
      entreaties for ‘copy,’ and simply requesting his foreman to
      ‘go to the d——l,’ when he (the foreman) assured
      him (the ‘Tea-Pot’!) that it was high time to ‘go to
      press’: turning a deaf ear to everything, I say, the great
      Bullet-head sat up until day-break, consuming the midnight oil, and
      absorbed in the composition of the really unparalleled paragraph, which
      follows:—
    </p>
<p>
      ‘So ho, John! how now? Told you so, you know. Don’t crow,
      another time, before you’re out of the woods! Does your mother know
      you’re out? Oh, no, no!—so go home at once, now, John, to your
      odious old woods of Concord! Go home to your woods, old owl—go! You
      won’t! Oh, poh, poh, don’t do so! You’ve got to go, you
      know! So go at once, and don’t go slow, for nobody owns you here,
      you know! Oh! John, John, if you don’t go you’re no homo—no!
      You’re only a fowl, an owl, a cow, a sow,—a doll, a poll; a
      poor, old, good-for-nothing-to-nobody, log, dog, hog, or frog, come out of
      a Concord bog. Cool, now—cool! Do be cool, you fool! None of your
      crowing, old cock! Don’t frown so—don’t! Don’t
      hollo, nor howl nor growl, nor bow-wow-wow! Good Lord, John, how you do
      look! Told you so, you know—but stop rolling your goose of an old
      poll about so, and go and drown your sorrows in a bowl!’
    </p>
<p>
      Exhausted, very naturally, by so stupendous an effort, the great
      Touch-and-go could attend to nothing farther that night. Firmly,
      composedly, yet with an air of conscious power, he handed his MS. to the
      devil in waiting, and then, walking leisurely home, retired, with
      ineffable dignity to bed.
    </p>
<p>
      Meantime the devil, to whom the copy was entrusted, ran up stairs to his
      ‘case,’ in an unutterable hurry, and forthwith made a
      commencement at ‘setting’ the MS. ‘up.’
    </p>
<p>
      In the first place, of course,—as the opening word was ‘So,’—he
      made a plunge into the capital S hole and came out in triumph with a
      capital S. Elated by this success, he immediately threw himself upon the
      little-o box with a blindfold impetuosity—but who shall describe his
      horror when his fingers came up without the anticipated letter in their
      clutch? who shall paint his astonishment and rage at perceiving, as he
      rubbed his knuckles, that he had been only thumping them to no purpose,
      against the bottom of an empty box. Not a single little-o was in the
      little-o hole; and, glancing fearfully at the capital-O partition, he
      found that to his extreme terror, in a precisely similar predicament. Awe—stricken,
      his first impulse was to rush to the foreman.
    </p>
<p>
      ‘Sir!’ said he, gasping for breath, ‘I can’t never
      set up nothing without no o’s.’
    </p>
<p>
      ‘What do you mean by that?’ growled the foreman, who was in a
      very ill humor at being kept so late.
    </p>
<p>
      ‘Why, sir, there beant an o in the office, neither a big un nor a
      little un!’
    </p>
<p>
      ‘What—what the d-l has become of all that were in the case?’
    </p>
<p>
      ‘I don’t know, sir,’ said the boy, ‘but one of
      them ere “G’zette” devils is bin prowling ‘bout
      here all night, and I spect he’s gone and cabbaged ‘em every
      one.’
    </p>
<p>
      ‘Dod rot him! I haven’t a doubt of it,’ replied the
      foreman, getting purple with rage ‘but I tell you what you do, Bob,
      that’s a good boy—you go over the first chance you get and
      hook every one of their i’s and (d——n them!) their
      izzards.’
    </p>
<p>
      ‘Jist so,’ replied Bob, with a wink and a frown—‘I’ll
      be into ‘em, I’ll let ‘em know a thing or two; but in de
      meantime, that ere paragrab? Mus go in to-night, you know—else there’ll
      be the d-l to pay, and-’
    </p>
<p>
      ‘And not a bit of pitch hot,’ interrupted the foreman, with a
      deep sigh, and an emphasis on the ‘bit.’ ‘Is it a long
      paragraph, Bob?’
    </p>
<p>
      ‘Shouldn’t call it a wery long paragrab,’ said Bob.
    </p>
<p>
      ‘Ah, well, then! do the best you can with it! We must get to press,’
      said the foreman, who was over head and ears in work; ‘just stick in
      some other letter for o; nobody’s going to read the fellow’s
      trash anyhow.’
    </p>
<p>
      ‘Wery well,’ replied Bob, ‘here goes it!’ and off
      he hurried to his case, muttering as he went: ‘Considdeble vell,
      them ere expressions, perticcler for a man as doesn’t swar. So I’s
      to gouge out all their eyes, eh? and d-n all their gizzards! Vell! this
      here’s the chap as is just able for to do it.’ The fact is
      that although Bob was but twelve years old and four feet high, he was
      equal to any amount of fight, in a small way.
    </p>
<p>
      The exigency here described is by no means of rare occurrence in
      printing-offices; and I cannot tell how to account for it, but the fact is
      indisputable, that when the exigency does occur, it almost always happens
      that x is adopted as a substitute for the letter deficient. The true
      reason, perhaps, is that x is rather the most superabundant letter in the
      cases, or at least was so in the old times—long enough to render the
      substitution in question an habitual thing with printers. As for Bob, he
      would have considered it heretical to employ any other character, in a
      case of this kind, than the x to which he had been accustomed.
    </p>
<p>
      ‘I shell have to x this ere paragrab,’ said he to himself, as
      he read it over in astonishment, ‘but it’s jest about the
      awfulest o-wy paragrab I ever did see’: so x it he did,
      unflinchingly, and to press it went x-ed.
    </p>
<p>
      Next morning the population of Nopolis were taken all aback by reading in
      ‘The Tea-Pot,’ the following extraordinary leader:
    </p>
<p>
      ‘Sx hx, Jxhn! hxw nxw? Txld yxu sx, yxu knxw. Dxn’t crxw,
      anxther time, befxre yxu’re xut xf the wxxds! Dxes yxur mxther knxw
      yxu’re xut? Xh, nx, nx!—sx gx hxme at xnce, nxw, Jxhn, tx yxur
      xdixus xld wxxds xf Cxncxrd! Gx hxme tx yxur wxxds, xld xwl,—gx! Yxu
      wxn’t? Xh, pxh, pxh, Jxhn, dxn’t dx sx! Yxu’ve gxt tx
      gx, yxu knxw, sx gx at xnce, and dxn’t gx slxw; fxr nxbxdy xwns yxu
      here, yxu knxw. Xh, Jxhn, Jxhn, Jxhn, if yxu dxn’t gx yxu’re
      nx hxmx—nx! Yxu’re xnly a fxwl, an xwl; a cxw, a sxw; a dxll,
      a pxll; a pxxr xld gxxd-fxr-nxthing-tx-nxbxdy, lxg, dxg, hxg, xr frxg,
      cxme xut xf a Cxncxrd bxg. Cxxl, nxw—cxxl! Dx be cxxl, yxu fxxl!
      Nxne xf yxur crxwing, xld cxck! Dxn’t frxwn sx—dxn’t!
      Dxn’t hxllx, nxr hxwl, nxr grxwl, nxr bxw-wxw-wxw! Gxxd Lxrd, Jxhn,
      hxw yxu dx lxxk! Txld yxu sx, yxu knxw,—but stxp rxlling yxur gxxse
      xf an xld pxll abxut sx, and gx and drxwn yxur sxrrxws in a bxwl!’
    </p>
<p>
      The uproar occasioned by this mystical and cabalistical article, is not to
      be conceived. The first definite idea entertained by the populace was,
      that some diabolical treason lay concealed in the hieroglyphics; and there
      was a general rush to Bullet-head’s residence, for the purpose of
      riding him on a rail; but that gentleman was nowhere to be found. He had
      vanished, no one could tell how; and not even the ghost of him has ever
      been seen since.
    </p>
<p>
      Unable to discover its legitimate object, the popular fury at length
      subsided; leaving behind it, by way of sediment, quite a medley of opinion
      about this unhappy affair.
    </p>
<p>
      One gentleman thought the whole an X-ellent joke.
    </p>
<p>
      Another said that, indeed, Bullet-head had shown much X-uberance of fancy.
    </p>
<p>
      A third admitted him X-entric, but no more.
    </p>
<p>
      A fourth could only suppose it the Yankee’s design to X-press, in a
      general way, his X-asperation.
    </p>
<p>
      ‘Say, rather, to set an X-ample to posterity,’ suggested a
      fifth.
    </p>
<p>
      That Bullet-head had been driven to an extremity, was clear to all; and in
      fact, since that editor could not be found, there was some talk about
      lynching the other one.
    </p>
<p>
      The more common conclusion, however, was that the affair was, simply,
      X-traordinary and in-X-plicable. Even the town mathematician confessed
      that he could make nothing of so dark a problem. X, every. body knew, was
      an unknown quantity; but in this case (as he properly observed), there was
      an unknown quantity of X.
    </p>
<p>
      The opinion of Bob, the devil (who kept dark about his having ‘X-ed
      the paragrab’), did not meet with so much attention as I think it
      deserved, although it was very openly and very fearlessly expressed. He
      said that, for his part, he had no doubt about the matter at all, that it
      was a clear case, that Mr. Bullet-head ‘never could be persuaded fur
      to drink like other folks, but vas continually a-svigging o’ that
      ere blessed XXX ale, and as a naiteral consekvence, it just puffed him up
      savage, and made him X (cross) in the X-treme.’
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2150link2H_4_0004">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      METZENGERSTEIN
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     Pestis eram vivus—moriens tua mors ero.

                —<i>Martin Luther</i>
</pre>
<p>
      HORROR and fatality have been stalking abroad in all ages. Why then give a
      date to this story I have to tell? Let it suffice to say, that at the
      period of which I speak, there existed, in the interior of Hungary, a
      settled although hidden belief in the doctrines of the Metempsychosis. Of
      the doctrines themselves—that is, of their falsity, or of their
      probability—I say nothing. I assert, however, that much of our
      incredulity—as La Bruy?re says of all our unhappiness—“<i>vient
      de ne pouvoir ?tre seuls</i>.” {*1}
    </p>
<p>
      But there are some points in the Hungarian superstition which were fast
      verging to absurdity. They—the Hungarians—differed very
      essentially from their Eastern authorities. For example, “<i>The
      soul</i>,” said the former—I give the words of an acute and
      intelligent Parisian—“<i>ne demeure qu’un seul fois dans
      un corps sensible: au reste—un cheval, un chien, un homme m?me, n’est
      que la ressemblance peu tangible de ces animaux.</i>”
    </p>
<p>
      The families of Berlifitzing and Metzengerstein had been at variance for
      centuries. Never before were two houses so illustrious, mutually
      embittered by hostility so deadly. The origin of this enmity seems to be
      found in the words of an ancient prophecy—“A lofty name shall
      have a fearful fall when, as the rider over his horse, the mortality of
      Metzengerstein shall triumph over the immortality of Berlifitzing.”
    </p>
<p>
      To be sure the words themselves had little or no meaning. But more trivial
      causes have given rise—and that no long while ago—to
      consequences equally eventful. Besides, the estates, which were
      contiguous, had long exercised a rival influence in the affairs of a busy
      government. Moreover, near neighbors are seldom friends; and the
      inhabitants of the Castle Berlifitzing might look, from their lofty
      buttresses, into the very windows of the palace Metzengerstein. Least of
      all had the more than feudal magnificence, thus discovered, a tendency to
      allay the irritable feelings of the less ancient and less wealthy
      Berlifitzings. What wonder then, that the words, however silly, of that
      prediction, should have succeeded in setting and keeping at variance two
      families already predisposed to quarrel by every instigation of hereditary
      jealousy? The prophecy seemed to imply—if it implied anything—a
      final triumph on the part of the already more powerful house; and was of
      course remembered with the more bitter animosity by the weaker and less
      influential.
    </p>
<p>
      Wilhelm, Count Berlifitzing, although loftily descended, was, at the epoch
      of this narrative, an infirm and doting old man, remarkable for nothing
      but an inordinate and inveterate personal antipathy to the family of his
      rival, and so passionate a love of horses, and of hunting, that neither
      bodily infirmity, great age, nor mental incapacity, prevented his daily
      participation in the dangers of the chase.
    </p>
<p>
      Frederick, Baron Metzengerstein, was, on the other hand, not yet of age.
      His father, the Minister G—, died young. His mother, the Lady Mary,
      followed him quickly after. Frederick was, at that time, in his fifteenth
      year. In a city, fifteen years are no long period—a child may be
      still a child in his third lustrum: but in a wilderness—in so
      magnificent a wilderness as that old principality, fifteen years have a
      far deeper meaning.
    </p>
<p>
      From some peculiar circumstances attending the administration of his
      father, the young Baron, at the decease of the former, entered immediately
      upon his vast possessions. Such estates were seldom held before by a
      nobleman of Hungary. His castles were without number. The chief in point
      of splendor and extent was the “Ch?teau Metzengerstein.” The
      boundary line of his dominions was never clearly defined; but his
      principal park embraced a circuit of fifty miles.
    </p>
<p>
      Upon the succession of a proprietor so young, with a character so well
      known, to a fortune so unparalleled, little speculation was afloat in
      regard to his probable course of conduct. And, indeed, for the space of
      three days, the behavior of the heir out-heroded Herod, and fairly
      surpassed the expectations of his most enthusiastic admirers. Shameful
      debaucheries—flagrant treacheries—unheard-of atrocities—gave
      his trembling vassals quickly to understand that no servile submission on
      their part—no punctilios of conscience on his own—were
      thenceforward to prove any security against the remorseless fangs of a
      petty Caligula. On the night of the fourth day, the stables of the castle
      Berlifitzing were discovered to be on fire; and the unanimous opinion of
      the neighborhood added the crime of the incendiary to the already hideous
      list of the Baron’s misdemeanors and enormities.
    </p>
<p>
      But during the tumult occasioned by this occurrence, the young nobleman
      himself sat apparently buried in meditation, in a vast and desolate upper
      apartment of the family palace of Metzengerstein. The rich although faded
      tapestry hangings which swung gloomily upon the walls, represented the
      shadowy and majestic forms of a thousand illustrious ancestors. <i>Here</i>,
      rich-ermined priests, and pontifical dignitaries, familiarly seated with
      the autocrat and the sovereign, put a veto on the wishes of a temporal
      king, or restrained with the fiat of papal supremacy the rebellious
      sceptre of the Arch-enemy. <i>There</i>, the dark, tall statures of the
      Princes Metzengerstein—their muscular war-coursers plunging over the
      carcasses of fallen foes—startled the steadiest nerves with their
      vigorous expression; and <i>here</i>, again, the voluptuous and swan-like
      figures of the dames of days gone by, floated away in the mazes of an
      unreal dance to the strains of imaginary melody.
    </p>
<p>
      But as the Baron listened, or affected to listen, to the gradually
      increasing uproar in the stables of Berlifitzing—or perhaps pondered
      upon some more novel, some more decided act of audacity—his eyes
      became unwittingly rivetted to the figure of an enormous, and unnaturally
      colored horse, represented in the tapestry as belonging to a Saracen
      ancestor of the family of his rival. The horse itself, in the foreground
      of the design, stood motionless and statue-like—while farther back,
      its discomfited rider perished by the dagger of a Metzengerstein.
    </p>
<p>
      On Frederick’s lip arose a fiendish expression, as he became aware
      of the direction which his glance had, without his consciousness, assumed.
      Yet he did not remove it. On the contrary, he could by no means account
      for the overwhelming anxiety which appeared falling like a pall upon his
      senses. It was with difficulty that he reconciled his dreamy and
      incoherent feelings with the certainty of being awake. The longer he gazed
      the more absorbing became the spell—the more impossible did it
      appear that he could ever withdraw his glance from the fascination of that
      tapestry. But the tumult without becoming suddenly more violent, with a
      compulsory exertion he diverted his attention to the glare of ruddy light
      thrown full by the flaming stables upon the windows of the apartment.
    </p>
<p>
      The action, however, was but momentary, his gaze returned mechanically to
      the wall. To his extreme horror and astonishment, the head of the gigantic
      steed had, in the meantime, altered its position. The neck of the animal,
      before arched, as if in compassion, over the prostrate body of its lord,
      was now extended, at full length, in the direction of the Baron. The eyes,
      before invisible, now wore an energetic and human expression, while they
      gleamed with a fiery and unusual red; and the distended lips of the
      apparently enraged horse left in full view his gigantic and disgusting
      teeth.
    </p>
<p>
      Stupified with terror, the young nobleman tottered to the door. As he
      threw it open, a flash of red light, streaming far into the chamber, flung
      his shadow with a clear outline against the quivering tapestry, and he
      shuddered to perceive that shadow—as he staggered awhile upon the
      threshold—assuming the exact position, and precisely filling up the
      contour, of the relentless and triumphant murderer of the Saracen
      Berlifitzing.
    </p>
<p>
      To lighten the depression of his spirits, the Baron hurried into the open
      air. At the principal gate of the palace he encountered three equerries.
      With much difficulty, and at the imminent peril of their lives, they were
      restraining the convulsive plunges of a gigantic and fiery-colored horse.
    </p>
<p>
      “Whose horse? Where did you get him?” demanded the youth, in a
      querulous and husky tone of voice, as he became instantly aware that the
      mysterious steed in the tapestried chamber was the very counterpart of the
      furious animal before his eyes.
    </p>
<p>
      “He is your own property, sire,” replied one of the equerries,
      “at least he is claimed by no other owner. We caught him flying, all
      smoking and foaming with rage, from the burning stables of the Castle
      Berlifitzing. Supposing him to have belonged to the old Count’s stud
      of foreign horses, we led him back as an estray. But the grooms there
      disclaim any title to the creature; which is strange, since he bears
      evident marks of having made a narrow escape from the flames.
    </p>
<p>
      “The letters W. V. B. are also branded very distinctly on his
      forehead,” interrupted a second equerry, “I supposed them, of
      course, to be the initials of Wilhelm Von Berlifitzing—but all at
      the castle are positive in denying any knowledge of the horse.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Extremely singular!” said the young Baron, with a musing air,
      and apparently unconscious of the meaning of his words. “He is, as
      you say, a remarkable horse—a prodigious horse! although, as you
      very justly observe, of a suspicious and untractable character, let him be
      mine, however,” he added, after a pause, “perhaps a rider like
      Frederick of Metzengerstein, may tame even the devil from the stables of
      Berlifitzing.”
    </p>
<p>
      “You are mistaken, my lord; the horse, as I think we mentioned, is
      <i>not</i> from the stables of the Count. If such had been the case, we
      know our duty better than to bring him into the presence of a noble of
      your family.”
    </p>
<p>
      “True!” observed the Baron, dryly, and at that instant a page
      of the bedchamber came from the palace with a heightened color, and a
      precipitate step. He whispered into his master’s ear an account of
      the sudden disappearance of a small portion of the tapestry, in an
      apartment which he designated; entering, at the same time, into
      particulars of a minute and circumstantial character; but from the low
      tone of voice in which these latter were communicated, nothing escaped to
      gratify the excited curiosity of the equerries.
    </p>
<p>
      The young Frederick, during the conference, seemed agitated by a variety
      of emotions. He soon, however, recovered his composure, and an expression
      of determined malignancy settled upon his countenance, as he gave
      peremptory orders that a certain chamber should be immediately locked up,
      and the key placed in his own possession.
    </p>
<p>
      “Have you heard of the unhappy death of the old hunter Berlifitzing?”
      said one of his vassals to the Baron, as, after the departure of the page,
      the huge steed which that nobleman had adopted as his own, plunged and
      curvetted, with redoubled fury, down the long avenue which extended from
      the chateau to the stables of Metzengerstein.
    </p>
<p>
      “No!” said the Baron, turning abruptly toward the speaker,
      “dead! say you?”
    </p>
<p>
      “It is indeed true, my lord; and, to a noble of your name, will be,
      I imagine, no unwelcome intelligence.”
    </p>
<p>
      A rapid smile shot over the countenance of the listener. “How died
      he?”
    </p>
<p>
      “In his rash exertions to rescue a favorite portion of his hunting
      stud, he has himself perished miserably in the flames.”
    </p>
<p>
      “I-n-d-e-e-d-!” ejaculated the Baron, as if slowly and
      deliberately impressed with the truth of some exciting idea.
    </p>
<p>
      “Indeed;” repeated the vassal.
    </p>
<p>
      “Shocking!” said the youth, calmly, and turned quietly into
      the chateau.
    </p>
<p>
      From this date a marked alteration took place in the outward demeanor of
      the dissolute young Baron Frederick Von Metzengerstein. Indeed, his
      behavior disappointed every expectation, and proved little in accordance
      with the views of many a manoeuvering mamma; while his habits and manner,
      still less than formerly, offered any thing congenial with those of the
      neighboring aristocracy. He was never to be seen beyond the limits of his
      own domain, and, in this wide and social world, was utterly companionless—unless,
      indeed, that unnatural, impetuous, and fiery-colored horse, which he
      henceforward continually bestrode, had any mysterious right to the title
      of his friend.
    </p>
<p>
      Numerous invitations on the part of the neighborhood for a long time,
      however, periodically came in. “Will the Baron honor our festivals
      with his presence?” “Will the Baron join us in a hunting of
      the boar?”—“Metzengerstein does not hunt;” “Metzengerstein
      will not attend,” were the haughty and laconic answers.
    </p>
<p>
      These repeated insults were not to be endured by an imperious nobility.
      Such invitations became less cordial—less frequent—in time
      they ceased altogether. The widow of the unfortunate Count Berlifitzing
      was even heard to express a hope “that the Baron might be at home
      when he did not wish to be at home, since he disdained the company of his
      equals; and ride when he did not wish to ride, since he preferred the
      society of a horse.” This to be sure was a very silly explosion of
      hereditary pique; and merely proved how singularly unmeaning our sayings
      are apt to become, when we desire to be unusually energetic.
    </p>
<p>
      The charitable, nevertheless, attributed the alteration in the conduct of
      the young nobleman to the natural sorrow of a son for the untimely loss of
      his parents—forgetting, however, his atrocious and reckless behavior
      during the short period immediately succeeding that bereavement. Some
      there were, indeed, who suggested a too haughty idea of self-consequence
      and dignity. Others again (among them may be mentioned the family
      physician) did not hesitate in speaking of morbid melancholy, and
      hereditary ill-health; while dark hints, of a more equivocal nature, were
      current among the multitude.
    </p>
<p>
      Indeed, the Baron’s perverse attachment to his lately-acquired
      charger—an attachment which seemed to attain new strength from every
      fresh example of the animal’s ferocious and demon-like propensities—at
      length became, in the eyes of all reasonable men, a hideous and unnatural
      fervor. In the glare of noon—at the dead hour of night—in
      sickness or in health—in calm or in tempest—the young
      Metzengerstein seemed rivetted to the saddle of that colossal horse, whose
      intractable audacities so well accorded with his own spirit.
    </p>
<p>
      There were circumstances, moreover, which coupled with late events, gave
      an unearthly and portentous character to the mania of the rider, and to
      the capabilities of the steed. The space passed over in a single leap had
      been accurately measured, and was found to exceed, by an astounding
      difference, the wildest expectations of the most imaginative. The Baron,
      besides, had no particular <i>name</i> for the animal, although all the
      rest in his collection were distinguished by characteristic appellations.
      His stable, too, was appointed at a distance from the rest; and with
      regard to grooming and other necessary offices, none but the owner in
      person had ventured to officiate, or even to enter the enclosure of that
      particular stall. It was also to be observed, that although the three
      grooms, who had caught the steed as he fled from the conflagration at
      Berlifitzing, had succeeded in arresting his course, by means of a
      chain-bridle and noose—yet no one of the three could with any
      certainty affirm that he had, during that dangerous struggle, or at any
      period thereafter, actually placed his hand upon the body of the beast.
      Instances of peculiar intelligence in the demeanor of a noble and
      high-spirited horse are not to be supposed capable of exciting
      unreasonable attention—especially among men who, daily trained to
      the labors of the chase, might appear well acquainted with the sagacity of
      a horse—but there were certain circumstances which intruded
      themselves per force upon the most skeptical and phlegmatic; and it is
      said there were times when the animal caused the gaping crowd who stood
      around to recoil in horror from the deep and impressive meaning of his
      terrible stamp—times when the young Metzengerstein turned pale and
      shrunk away from the rapid and searching expression of his earnest and
      human-looking eye.
    </p>
<p>
      Among all the retinue of the Baron, however, none were found to doubt the
      ardor of that extraordinary affection which existed on the part of the
      young nobleman for the fiery qualities of his horse; at least, none but an
      insignificant and misshapen little page, whose deformities were in
      everybody’s way, and whose opinions were of the least possible
      importance. He—if his ideas are worth mentioning at all—had
      the effrontery to assert that his master never vaulted into the saddle
      without an unaccountable and almost imperceptible shudder, and that, upon
      his return from every long-continued and habitual ride, an expression of
      triumphant malignity distorted every muscle in his countenance.
    </p>
<p>
      One tempestuous night, Metzengerstein, awaking from a heavy slumber,
      descended like a maniac from his chamber, and, mounting in hot haste,
      bounded away into the mazes of the forest. An occurrence so common
      attracted no particular attention, but his return was looked for with
      intense anxiety on the part of his domestics, when, after some hours’
      absence, the stupendous and magnificent battlements of the Chateau
      Metzengerstein, were discovered crackling and rocking to their very
      foundation, under the influence of a dense and livid mass of ungovernable
      fire.
    </p>
<p>
      As the flames, when first seen, had already made so terrible a progress
      that all efforts to save any portion of the building were evidently
      futile, the astonished neighborhood stood idly around in silent and
      pathetic wonder. But a new and fearful object soon rivetted the attention
      of the multitude, and proved how much more intense is the excitement
      wrought in the feelings of a crowd by the contemplation of human agony,
      than that brought about by the most appalling spectacles of inanimate
      matter.
    </p>
<p>
      Up the long avenue of aged oaks which led from the forest to the main
      entrance of the Ch?teau Metzengerstein, a steed, bearing an unbonneted and
      disordered rider, was seen leaping with an impetuosity which outstripped
      the very Demon of the Tempest.
    </p>
<p>
      The career of the horseman was indisputably, on his own part,
      uncontrollable. The agony of his countenance, the convulsive struggle of
      his frame, gave evidence of superhuman exertion: but no sound, save a
      solitary shriek, escaped from his lacerated lips, which were bitten
      through and through in the intensity of terror. One instant, and the
      clattering of hoofs resounded sharply and shrilly above the roaring of the
      flames and the shrieking of the winds—another, and, clearing at a
      single plunge the gate-way and the moat, the steed bounded far up the
      tottering staircases of the palace, and, with its rider, disappeared amid
      the whirlwind of chaotic fire.
    </p>
<p>
      The fury of the tempest immediately died away, and a dead calm sullenly
      succeeded. A white flame still enveloped the building like a shroud, and,
      streaming far away into the quiet atmosphere, shot forth a glare of
      preternatural light; while a cloud of smoke settled heavily over the
      battlements in the distinct colossal figure of—<i>a horse</i>.
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2150link2H_4_0005">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      THE SYSTEM OF DOCTOR TARR AND PROFESSOR FETHER
    </h2>
<p>
      DURING the autumn of 18—, while on a tour through the extreme
      southern provinces of France, my route led me within a few miles of a
      certain Maison de Sante or private mad-house, about which I had heard much
      in Paris from my medical friends. As I had never visited a place of the
      kind, I thought the opportunity too good to be lost; and so proposed to my
      travelling companion (a gentleman with whom I had made casual acquaintance
      a few days before) that we should turn aside, for an hour or so, and look
      through the establishment. To this he objected—pleading haste in the
      first place, and, in the second, a very usual horror at the sight of a
      lunatic. He begged me, however, not to let any mere courtesy towards
      himself interfere with the gratification of my curiosity, and said that he
      would ride on leisurely, so that I might overtake him during the day, or,
      at all events, during the next. As he bade me good-bye, I bethought me
      that there might be some difficulty in obtaining access to the premises,
      and mentioned my fears on this point. He replied that, in fact, unless I
      had personal knowledge of the superintendent, Monsieur Maillard, or some
      credential in the way of a letter, a difficulty might be found to exist,
      as the regulations of these private mad-houses were more rigid than the
      public hospital laws. For himself, he added, he had, some years since,
      made the acquaintance of Maillard, and would so far assist me as to ride
      up to the door and introduce me; although his feelings on the subject of
      lunacy would not permit of his entering the house.
    </p>
<p>
      I thanked him, and, turning from the main road, we entered a grass-grown
      by-path, which, in half an hour, nearly lost itself in a dense forest,
      clothing the base of a mountain. Through this dank and gloomy wood we rode
      some two miles, when the Maison de Sante came in view. It was a fantastic
      chateau, much dilapidated, and indeed scarcely tenantable through age and
      neglect. Its aspect inspired me with absolute dread, and, checking my
      horse, I half resolved to turn back. I soon, however, grew ashamed of my
      weakness, and proceeded.
    </p>
<p>
      As we rode up to the gate-way, I perceived it slightly open, and the
      visage of a man peering through. In an instant afterward, this man came
      forth, accosted my companion by name, shook him cordially by the hand, and
      begged him to alight. It was Monsieur Maillard himself. He was a portly,
      fine-looking gentleman of the old school, with a polished manner, and a
      certain air of gravity, dignity, and authority which was very impressive.
    </p>
<p>
      My friend, having presented me, mentioned my desire to inspect the
      establishment, and received Monsieur Maillard’s assurance that he
      would show me all attention, now took leave, and I saw him no more.
    </p>
<p>
      When he had gone, the superintendent ushered me into a small and
      exceedingly neat parlor, containing, among other indications of refined
      taste, many books, drawings, pots of flowers, and musical instruments. A
      cheerful fire blazed upon the hearth. At a piano, singing an aria from
      Bellini, sat a young and very beautiful woman, who, at my entrance, paused
      in her song, and received me with graceful courtesy. Her voice was low,
      and her whole manner subdued. I thought, too, that I perceived the traces
      of sorrow in her countenance, which was excessively, although to my taste,
      not unpleasingly, pale. She was attired in deep mourning, and excited in
      my bosom a feeling of mingled respect, interest, and admiration.
    </p>
<p>
      I had heard, at Paris, that the institution of Monsieur Maillard was
      managed upon what is vulgarly termed the “system of soothing”—that
      all punishments were avoided—that even confinement was seldom
      resorted to—that the patients, while secretly watched, were left
      much apparent liberty, and that most of them were permitted to roam about
      the house and grounds in the ordinary apparel of persons in right mind.
    </p>
<p>
      Keeping these impressions in view, I was cautious in what I said before
      the young lady; for I could not be sure that she was sane; and, in fact,
      there was a certain restless brilliancy about her eyes which half led me
      to imagine she was not. I confined my remarks, therefore, to general
      topics, and to such as I thought would not be displeasing or exciting even
      to a lunatic. She replied in a perfectly rational manner to all that I
      said; and even her original observations were marked with the soundest
      good sense, but a long acquaintance with the metaphysics of mania, had
      taught me to put no faith in such evidence of sanity, and I continued to
      practise, throughout the interview, the caution with which I commenced it.
    </p>
<p>
      Presently a smart footman in livery brought in a tray with fruit, wine,
      and other refreshments, of which I partook, the lady soon afterward
      leaving the room. As she departed I turned my eyes in an inquiring manner
      toward my host.
    </p>
<p>
      “No,” he said, “oh, no—a member of my family—my
      niece, and a most accomplished woman.”
    </p>
<p>
      “I beg a thousand pardons for the suspicion,” I replied,
      “but of course you will know how to excuse me. The excellent
      administration of your affairs here is well understood in Paris, and I
      thought it just possible, you know—
    </p>
<p>
      “Yes, yes—say no more—or rather it is myself who should
      thank you for the commendable prudence you have displayed. We seldom find
      so much of forethought in young men; and, more than once, some unhappy
      contre-temps has occurred in consequence of thoughtlessness on the part of
      our visitors. While my former system was in operation, and my patients
      were permitted the privilege of roaming to and fro at will, they were
      often aroused to a dangerous frenzy by injudicious persons who called to
      inspect the house. Hence I was obliged to enforce a rigid system of
      exclusion; and none obtained access to the premises upon whose discretion
      I could not rely.”
    </p>
<p>
      “While your former system was in operation!” I said, repeating
      his words—“do I understand you, then, to say that the ‘soothing
      system’ of which I have heard so much is no longer in force?”
    </p>
<p>
      “It is now,” he replied, “several weeks since we have
      concluded to renounce it forever.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Indeed! you astonish me!”
    </p>
<p>
      “We found it, sir,” he said, with a sigh, “absolutely
      necessary to return to the old usages. The danger of the soothing system
      was, at all times, appalling; and its advantages have been much overrated.
      I believe, sir, that in this house it has been given a fair trial, if ever
      in any. We did every thing that rational humanity could suggest. I am
      sorry that you could not have paid us a visit at an earlier period, that
      you might have judged for yourself. But I presume you are conversant with
      the soothing practice—with its details.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Not altogether. What I have heard has been at third or fourth hand.”
    </p>
<p>
      “I may state the system, then, in general terms, as one in which the
      patients were menages-humored. We contradicted no fancies which entered
      the brains of the mad. On the contrary, we not only indulged but
      encouraged them; and many of our most permanent cures have been thus
      effected. There is no argument which so touches the feeble reason of the
      madman as the argumentum ad absurdum. We have had men, for example, who
      fancied themselves chickens. The cure was, to insist upon the thing as a
      fact—to accuse the patient of stupidity in not sufficiently
      perceiving it to be a fact—and thus to refuse him any other diet for
      a week than that which properly appertains to a chicken. In this manner a
      little corn and gravel were made to perform wonders.”
    </p>
<p>
      “But was this species of acquiescence all?”
    </p>
<p>
      “By no means. We put much faith in amusements of a simple kind, such
      as music, dancing, gymnastic exercises generally, cards, certain classes
      of books, and so forth. We affected to treat each individual as if for
      some ordinary physical disorder, and the word ‘lunacy’ was
      never employed. A great point was to set each lunatic to guard the actions
      of all the others. To repose confidence in the understanding or discretion
      of a madman, is to gain him body and soul. In this way we were enabled to
      dispens? with an expensive body of keepers.”
    </p>
<p>
      “And you had no punishments of any kind?”
    </p>
<p>
      “None.”
    </p>
<p>
      “And you never confined your patients?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Very rarely. Now and then, the malady of some individual growing to
      a crisis, or taking a sudden turn of fury, we conveyed him to a secret
      cell, lest his disorder should infect the rest, and there kept him until
      we could dismiss him to his friends—for with the raging maniac we
      have nothing to do. He is usually removed to the public hospitals.”
    </p>
<p>
      “And you have now changed all this—and you think for the
      better?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Decidedly. The system had its disadvantages, and even its dangers.
      It is now, happily, exploded throughout all the Maisons de Sante of
      France.”
    </p>
<p>
      “I am very much surprised,” I said, “at what you tell
      me; for I made sure that, at this moment, no other method of treatment for
      mania existed in any portion of the country.”
    </p>
<p>
      “You are young yet, my friend,” replied my host, “but
      the time will arrive when you will learn to judge for yourself of what is
      going on in the world, without trusting to the gossip of others. Believe
      nothing you hear, and only one-half that you see. Now about our Maisons de
      Sante, it is clear that some ignoramus has misled you. After dinner,
      however, when you have sufficiently recovered from the fatigue of your
      ride, I will be happy to take you over the house, and introduce to you a
      system which, in my opinion, and in that of every one who has witnessed
      its operation, is incomparably the most effectual as yet devised.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Your own?” I inquired—“one of your own invention?”
    </p>
<p>
      “I am proud,” he replied, “to acknowledge that it is—at
      least in some measure.”
    </p>
<p>
      In this manner I conversed with Monsieur Maillard for an hour or two,
      during which he showed me the gardens and conservatories of the place.
    </p>
<p>
      “I cannot let you see my patients,” he said, “just at
      present. To a sensitive mind there is always more or less of the shocking
      in such exhibitions; and I do not wish to spoil your appetite for dinner.
      We will dine. I can give you some veal a la Menehoult, with cauliflowers
      in veloute sauce—after that a glass of Clos de Vougeot—then
      your nerves will be sufficiently steadied.”
    </p>
<p>
      At six, dinner was announced; and my host conducted me into a large salle
      a manger, where a very numerous company were assembled—twenty-five
      or thirty in all. They were, apparently, people of rank-certainly of high
      breeding—although their habiliments, I thought, were extravagantly
      rich, partaking somewhat too much of the ostentatious finery of the vielle
      cour. I noticed that at least two-thirds of these guests were ladies; and
      some of the latter were by no means accoutred in what a Parisian would
      consider good taste at the present day. Many females, for example, whose
      age could not have been less than seventy were bedecked with a profusion
      of jewelry, such as rings, bracelets, and earrings, and wore their bosoms
      and arms shamefully bare. I observed, too, that very few of the dresses
      were well made—or, at least, that very few of them fitted the
      wearers. In looking about, I discovered the interesting girl to whom
      Monsieur Maillard had presented me in the little parlor; but my surprise
      was great to see her wearing a hoop and farthingale, with high-heeled
      shoes, and a dirty cap of Brussels lace, so much too large for her that it
      gave her face a ridiculously diminutive expression. When I had first seen
      her, she was attired, most becomingly, in deep mourning. There was an air
      of oddity, in short, about the dress of the whole party, which, at first,
      caused me to recur to my original idea of the “soothing system,”
      and to fancy that Monsieur Maillard had been willing to deceive me until
      after dinner, that I might experience no uncomfortable feelings during the
      repast, at finding myself dining with lunatics; but I remembered having
      been informed, in Paris, that the southern provincialists were a
      peculiarly eccentric people, with a vast number of antiquated notions; and
      then, too, upon conversing with several members of the company, my
      apprehensions were immediately and fully dispelled.
    </p>
<p>
      The dining-room itself, although perhaps sufficiently comfortable and of
      good dimensions, had nothing too much of elegance about it. For example,
      the floor was uncarpeted; in France, however, a carpet is frequently
      dispensed with. The windows, too, were without curtains; the shutters,
      being shut, were securely fastened with iron bars, applied diagonally,
      after the fashion of our ordinary shop-shutters. The apartment, I
      observed, formed, in itself, a wing of the chateau, and thus the windows
      were on three sides of the parallelogram, the door being at the other.
      There were no less than ten windows in all.
    </p>
<p>
      The table was superbly set out. It was loaded with plate, and more than
      loaded with delicacies. The profusion was absolutely barbaric. There were
      meats enough to have feasted the Anakim. Never, in all my life, had I
      witnessed so lavish, so wasteful an expenditure of the good things of
      life. There seemed very little taste, however, in the arrangements; and my
      eyes, accustomed to quiet lights, were sadly offended by the prodigious
      glare of a multitude of wax candles, which, in silver candelabra, were
      deposited upon the table, and all about the room, wherever it was possible
      to find a place. There were several active servants in attendance; and,
      upon a large table, at the farther end of the apartment, were seated seven
      or eight people with fiddles, fifes, trombones, and a drum. These fellows
      annoyed me very much, at intervals, during the repast, by an infinite
      variety of noises, which were intended for music, and which appeared to
      afford much entertainment to all present, with the exception of myself.
    </p>
<p>
      Upon the whole, I could not help thinking that there was much of the
      bizarre about every thing I saw—but then the world is made up of all
      kinds of persons, with all modes of thought, and all sorts of conventional
      customs. I had travelled, too, so much, as to be quite an adept at the nil
      admirari; so I took my seat very coolly at the right hand of my host, and,
      having an excellent appetite, did justice to the good cheer set before me.
    </p>
<p>
      The conversation, in the meantime, was spirited and general. The ladies,
      as usual, talked a great deal. I soon found that nearly all the company
      were well educated; and my host was a world of good-humored anecdote in
      himself. He seemed quite willing to speak of his position as
      superintendent of a Maison de Sante; and, indeed, the topic of lunacy was,
      much to my surprise, a favorite one with all present. A great many amusing
      stories were told, having reference to the whims of the patients.
    </p>
<p>
      “We had a fellow here once,” said a fat little gentleman, who
      sat at my right,—“a fellow that fancied himself a tea-pot; and
      by the way, is it not especially singular how often this particular
      crotchet has entered the brain of the lunatic? There is scarcely an insane
      asylum in France which cannot supply a human tea-pot. Our gentleman was a
      Britannia—ware tea-pot, and was careful to polish himself every
      morning with buckskin and whiting.”
    </p>
<p>
      “And then,” said a tall man just opposite, “we had here,
      not long ago, a person who had taken it into his head that he was a donkey—which
      allegorically speaking, you will say, was quite true. He was a troublesome
      patient; and we had much ado to keep him within bounds. For a long time he
      would eat nothing but thistles; but of this idea we soon cured him by
      insisting upon his eating nothing else. Then he was perpetually kicking
      out his heels-so-so-”
    </p>
<p>
      “Mr. De Kock! I will thank you to behave yourself!” here
      interrupted an old lady, who sat next to the speaker. “Please keep
      your feet to yourself! You have spoiled my brocade! Is it necessary, pray,
      to illustrate a remark in so practical a style? Our friend here can surely
      comprehend you without all this. Upon my word, you are nearly as great a
      donkey as the poor unfortunate imagined himself. Your acting is very
      natural, as I live.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Mille pardons! Ma’m’selle!” replied Monsieur De
      Kock, thus addressed—“a thousand pardons! I had no intention
      of offending. Ma’m’selle Laplace—Monsieur De Kock will
      do himself the honor of taking wine with you.”
    </p>
<p>
      Here Monsieur De Kock bowed low, kissed his hand with much ceremony, and
      took wine with Ma’m’selle Laplace.
    </p>
<p>
      “Allow me, mon ami,” now said Monsieur Maillard, addressing
      myself, “allow me to send you a morsel of this veal a la St.
      Menhoult—you will find it particularly fine.”
    </p>
<p>
      At this instant three sturdy waiters had just succeeded in depositing
      safely upon the table an enormous dish, or trencher, containing what I
      supposed to be the “monstrum horrendum, informe, ingens, cui lumen
      ademptum.” A closer scrutiny assured me, however, that it was only a
      small calf roasted whole, and set upon its knees, with an apple in its
      mouth, as is the English fashion of dressing a hare.
    </p>
<p>
      “Thank you, no,” I replied; “to say the truth, I am not
      particularly partial to veal a la St.—what is it?—for I do not
      find that it altogether agrees with me. I will change my plate, however,
      and try some of the rabbit.”
    </p>
<p>
      There were several side-dishes on the table, containing what appeared to
      be the ordinary French rabbit—a very delicious morceau, which I can
      recommend.
    </p>
<p>
      “Pierre,” cried the host, “change this gentleman’s
      plate, and give him a side-piece of this rabbit au-chat.”
    </p>
<p>
      “This what?” said I.
    </p>
<p>
      “This rabbit au-chat.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Why, thank you—upon second thoughts, no. I will just help
      myself to some of the ham.”
    </p>
<p>
      There is no knowing what one eats, thought I to myself, at the tables of
      these people of the province. I will have none of their rabbit au-chat—and,
      for the matter of that, none of their cat-au-rabbit either.
    </p>
<p>
      “And then,” said a cadaverous looking personage, near the foot
      of the table, taking up the thread of the conversation where it had been
      broken off,—“and then, among other oddities, we had a patient,
      once upon a time, who very pertinaciously maintained himself to be a
      Cordova cheese, and went about, with a knife in his hand, soliciting his
      friends to try a small slice from the middle of his leg.”
    </p>
<p>
      “He was a great fool, beyond doubt,” interposed some one,
      “but not to be compared with a certain individual whom we all know,
      with the exception of this strange gentleman. I mean the man who took
      himself for a bottle of champagne, and always went off with a pop and a
      fizz, in this fashion.”
    </p>
<p>
      Here the speaker, very rudely, as I thought, put his right thumb in his
      left cheek, withdrew it with a sound resembling the popping of a cork, and
      then, by a dexterous movement of the tongue upon the teeth, created a
      sharp hissing and fizzing, which lasted for several minutes, in imitation
      of the frothing of champagne. This behavior, I saw plainly, was not very
      pleasing to Monsieur Maillard; but that gentleman said nothing, and the
      conversation was resumed by a very lean little man in a big wig.
    </p>
<p>
      “And then there was an ignoramus,” said he, “who mistook
      himself for a frog, which, by the way, he resembled in no little degree. I
      wish you could have seen him, sir,”—here the speaker addressed
      myself—“it would have done your heart good to see the natural
      airs that he put on. Sir, if that man was not a frog, I can only observe
      that it is a pity he was not. His croak thus—o-o-o-o-gh—o-o-o-o-gh!
      was the finest note in the world—B flat; and when he put his elbows
      upon the table thus—after taking a glass or two of wine—and
      distended his mouth, thus, and rolled up his eyes, thus, and winked them
      with excessive rapidity, thus, why then, sir, I take it upon myself to
      say, positively, that you would have been lost in admiration of the genius
      of the man.”
    </p>
<p>
      “I have no doubt of it,” I said.
    </p>
<p>
      “And then,” said somebody else, “then there was Petit
      Gaillard, who thought himself a pinch of snuff, and was truly distressed
      because he could not take himself between his own finger and thumb.”
    </p>
<p>
      “And then there was Jules Desoulieres, who was a very singular
      genius, indeed, and went mad with the idea that he was a pumpkin. He
      persecuted the cook to make him up into pies—a thing which the cook
      indignantly refused to do. For my part, I am by no means sure that a
      pumpkin pie a la Desoulieres would not have been very capital eating
      indeed!”
    </p>
<p>
      “You astonish me!” said I; and I looked inquisitively at
      Monsieur Maillard.
    </p>
<p>
      “Ha! ha! ha!” said that gentleman—“he! he! he!—hi!
      hi! hi!—ho! ho! ho!—hu! hu! hu! hu!—very good indeed!
      You must not be astonished, mon ami; our friend here is a wit—a
      drole—you must not understand him to the letter.”
    </p>
<p>
      “And then,” said some other one of the party,—“then
      there was Bouffon Le Grand—another extraordinary personage in his
      way. He grew deranged through love, and fancied himself possessed of two
      heads. One of these he maintained to be the head of Cicero; the other he
      imagined a composite one, being Demosthenes’ from the top of the
      forehead to the mouth, and Lord Brougham’s from the mouth to the
      chin. It is not impossible that he was wrong; but he would have convinced
      you of his being in the right; for he was a man of great eloquence. He had
      an absolute passion for oratory, and could not refrain from display. For
      example, he used to leap upon the dinner-table thus, and—and-”
    </p>
<p>
      Here a friend, at the side of the speaker, put a hand upon his shoulder
      and whispered a few words in his ear, upon which he ceased talking with
      great suddenness, and sank back within his chair.
    </p>
<p>
      “And then,” said the friend who had whispered, “there
      was Boullard, the tee-totum. I call him the tee-totum because, in fact, he
      was seized with the droll but not altogether irrational crotchet, that he
      had been converted into a tee-totum. You would have roared with laughter
      to see him spin. He would turn round upon one heel by the hour, in this
      manner—so—”
    </p>
<p>
      Here the friend whom he had just interrupted by a whisper, performed an
      exactly similar office for himself.
    </p>
<p>
      “But then,” cried the old lady, at the top of her voice,
      “your Monsieur Boullard was a madman, and a very silly madman at
      best; for who, allow me to ask you, ever heard of a human tee-totum? The
      thing is absurd. Madame Joyeuse was a more sensible person, as you know.
      She had a crotchet, but it was instinct with common sense, and gave
      pleasure to all who had the honor of her acquaintance. She found, upon
      mature deliberation, that, by some accident, she had been turned into a
      chicken-cock; but, as such, she behaved with propriety. She flapped her
      wings with prodigious effect—so—so—and, as for her crow,
      it was delicious!
    </p>
<p>
      Cock-a-doodle-doo!—cock-a-doodle-doo!—cock-a-doodle-de-doo
      dooo-do-o-o-o-o-o-o!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Madame Joyeuse, I will thank you to behave yourself!” here
      interrupted our host, very angrily. “You can either conduct yourself
      as a lady should do, or you can quit the table forthwith-take your choice.”
    </p>
<p>
      The lady (whom I was much astonished to hear addressed as Madame Joyeuse,
      after the description of Madame Joyeuse she had just given) blushed up to
      the eyebrows, and seemed exceedingly abashed at the reproof. She hung down
      her head, and said not a syllable in reply. But another and younger lady
      resumed the theme. It was my beautiful girl of the little parlor.
    </p>
<p>
      “Oh, Madame Joyeuse was a fool!” she exclaimed, “but
      there was really much sound sense, after all, in the opinion of Eugenie
      Salsafette. She was a very beautiful and painfully modest young lady, who
      thought the ordinary mode of habiliment indecent, and wished to dress
      herself, always, by getting outside instead of inside of her clothes. It
      is a thing very easily done, after all. You have only to do so—and
      then so—so—so—and then so—so—so—and
      then so—so—and then—
    </p>
<p>
      “Mon dieu! Ma’m’selle Salsafette!” here cried a
      dozen voices at once. “What are you about?—forbear!—that
      is sufficient!—we see, very plainly, how it is done!—hold!
      hold!” and several persons were already leaping from their seats to
      withhold Ma’m’selle Salsafette from putting herself upon a par
      with the Medicean Venus, when the point was very effectually and suddenly
      accomplished by a series of loud screams, or yells, from some portion of
      the main body of the chateau.
    </p>
<p>
      My nerves were very much affected, indeed, by these yells; but the rest of
      the company I really pitied. I never saw any set of reasonable people so
      thoroughly frightened in my life. They all grew as pale as so many
      corpses, and, shrinking within their seats, sat quivering and gibbering
      with terror, and listening for a repetition of the sound. It came again—louder
      and seemingly nearer—and then a third time very loud, and then a
      fourth time with a vigor evidently diminished. At this apparent dying away
      of the noise, the spirits of the company were immediately regained, and
      all was life and anecdote as before. I now ventured to inquire the cause
      of the disturbance.
    </p>
<p>
      “A mere bagtelle,” said Monsieur Maillard. “We are used
      to these things, and care really very little about them. The lunatics,
      every now and then, get up a howl in concert; one starting another, as is
      sometimes the case with a bevy of dogs at night. It occasionally happens,
      however, that the concerto yells are succeeded by a simultaneous effort at
      breaking loose, when, of course, some little danger is to be apprehended.”
    </p>
<p>
      “And how many have you in charge?”
    </p>
<p>
      “At present we have not more than ten, altogether.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Principally females, I presume?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Oh, no—every one of them men, and stout fellows, too, I can
      tell you.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Indeed! I have always understood that the majority of lunatics were
      of the gentler sex.”
    </p>
<p>
      “It is generally so, but not always. Some time ago, there were about
      twenty-seven patients here; and, of that number, no less than eighteen
      were women; but, lately, matters have changed very much, as you see.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Yes—have changed very much, as you see,” here
      interrupted the gentleman who had broken the shins of Ma’m’selle
      Laplace.
    </p>
<p>
      “Yes—have changed very much, as you see!” chimed in the
      whole company at once.
    </p>
<p>
      “Hold your tongues, every one of you!” said my host, in a
      great rage. Whereupon the whole company maintained a dead silence for
      nearly a minute. As for one lady, she obeyed Monsieur Maillard to the
      letter, and thrusting out her tongue, which was an excessively long one,
      held it very resignedly, with both hands, until the end of the
      entertainment.
    </p>
<p>
      “And this gentlewoman,” said I, to Monsieur Maillard, bending
      over and addressing him in a whisper—“this good lady who has
      just spoken, and who gives us the cock-a-doodle-de-doo—she, I
      presume, is harmless—quite harmless, eh?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Harmless!” ejaculated he, in unfeigned surprise, “why—why,
      what can you mean?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Only slightly touched?” said I, touching my head. “I
      take it for granted that she is not particularly not dangerously affected,
      eh?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Mon dieu! what is it you imagine? This lady, my particular old
      friend Madame Joyeuse, is as absolutely sane as myself. She has her little
      eccentricities, to be sure—but then, you know, all old women—all
      very old women—are more or less eccentric!”
    </p>
<p>
      “To be sure,” said I,—“to be sure—and then
      the rest of these ladies and gentlemen-”
    </p>
<p>
      “Are my friends and keepers,” interupted Monsieur Maillard,
      drawing himself up with hauteur,—“my very good friends and
      assistants.”
    </p>
<p>
      “What! all of them?” I asked,—“the women and all?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Assuredly,” he said,—“we could not do at all
      without the women; they are the best lunatic nurses in the world; they
      have a way of their own, you know; their bright eyes have a marvellous
      effect;—something like the fascination of the snake, you know.”
    </p>
<p>
      “To be sure,” said I,—“to be sure! They behave a
      little odd, eh?—they are a little queer, eh?—don’t you
      think so?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Odd!—queer!—why, do you really think so? We are not
      very prudish, to be sure, here in the South—do pretty much as we
      please—enjoy life, and all that sort of thing, you know-”
    </p>
<p>
      “To be sure,” said I,—“to be sure.”
    </p>
<p>
      “And then, perhaps, this Clos de Vougeot is a little heady, you know—a
      little strong—you understand, eh?”
    </p>
<p>
      “To be sure,” said I,—“to be sure. By the bye,
      Monsieur, did I understand you to say that the system you have adopted, in
      place of the celebrated soothing system, was one of very rigorous
      severity?”
    </p>
<p>
      “By no means. Our confinement is necessarily close; but the
      treatment—the medical treatment, I mean—is rather agreeable to
      the patients than otherwise.”
    </p>
<p>
      “And the new system is one of your own invention?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Not altogether. Some portions of it are referable to Professor
      Tarr, of whom you have, necessarily, heard; and, again, there are
      modifications in my plan which I am happy to acknowledge as belonging of
      right to the celebrated Fether, with whom, if I mistake not, you have the
      honor of an intimate acquaintance.”
    </p>
<p>
      “I am quite ashamed to confess,” I replied, “that I have
      never even heard the names of either gentleman before.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Good heavens!” ejaculated my host, drawing back his chair
      abruptly, and uplifting his hands. “I surely do not hear you aright!
      You did not intend to say, eh? that you had never heard either of the
      learned Doctor Tarr, or of the celebrated Professor Fether?”
    </p>
<p>
      “I am forced to acknowledge my ignorance,” I replied; “but
      the truth should be held inviolate above all things. Nevertheless, I feel
      humbled to the dust, not to be acquainted with the works of these, no
      doubt, extraordinary men. I will seek out their writings forthwith, and
      peruse them with deliberate care. Monsieur Maillard, you have really—I
      must confess it—you have really—made me ashamed of myself!”
    </p>
<p>
      And this was the fact.
    </p>
<p>
      “Say no more, my good young friend,” he said kindly, pressing
      my hand,—“join me now in a glass of Sauterne.”
    </p>
<p>
      We drank. The company followed our example without stint. They chatted—they
      jested—they laughed—they perpetrated a thousand absurdities—the
      fiddles shrieked—the drum row-de-dowed—the trombones bellowed
      like so many brazen bulls of Phalaris—and the whole scene, growing
      gradually worse and worse, as the wines gained the ascendancy, became at
      length a sort of pandemonium in petto. In the meantime, Monsieur Maillard
      and myself, with some bottles of Sauterne and Vougeot between us,
      continued our conversation at the top of the voice. A word spoken in an
      ordinary key stood no more chance of being heard than the voice of a fish
      from the bottom of Niagara Falls.
    </p>
<p>
      “And, sir,” said I, screaming in his ear, “you mentioned
      something before dinner about the danger incurred in the old system of
      soothing. How is that?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Yes,” he replied, “there was, occasionally, very great
      danger indeed. There is no accounting for the caprices of madmen; and, in
      my opinion as well as in that of Dr. Tarr and Professor Fether, it is
      never safe to permit them to run at large unattended. A lunatic may be
      ‘soothed,’ as it is called, for a time, but, in the end, he is
      very apt to become obstreperous. His cunning, too, is proverbial and
      great. If he has a project in view, he conceals his design with a
      marvellous wisdom; and the dexterity with which he counterfeits sanity,
      presents, to the metaphysician, one of the most singular problems in the
      study of mind. When a madman appears thoroughly sane, indeed, it is high
      time to put him in a straitjacket.”
    </p>
<p>
      “But the danger, my dear sir, of which you were speaking, in your
      own experience—during your control of this house—have you had
      practical reason to think liberty hazardous in the case of a lunatic?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Here?—in my own experience?—why, I may say, yes. For
      example:—no very long while ago, a singular circumstance occurred in
      this very house. The ‘soothing system,’ you know, was then in
      operation, and the patients were at large. They behaved remarkably
      well-especially so, any one of sense might have known that some devilish
      scheme was brewing from that particular fact, that the fellows behaved so
      remarkably well. And, sure enough, one fine morning the keepers found
      themselves pinioned hand and foot, and thrown into the cells, where they
      were attended, as if they were the lunatics, by the lunatics themselves,
      who had usurped the offices of the keepers.”
    </p>
<p>
      “You don’t tell me so! I never heard of any thing so absurd in
      my life!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Fact—it all came to pass by means of a stupid fellow—a
      lunatic—who, by some means, had taken it into his head that he had
      invented a better system of government than any ever heard of before—of
      lunatic government, I mean. He wished to give his invention a trial, I
      suppose, and so he persuaded the rest of the patients to join him in a
      conspiracy for the overthrow of the reigning powers.”
    </p>
<p>
      “And he really succeeded?”
    </p>
<p>
      “No doubt of it. The keepers and kept were soon made to exchange
      places. Not that exactly either—for the madmen had been free, but
      the keepers were shut up in cells forthwith, and treated, I am sorry to
      say, in a very cavalier manner.”
    </p>
<p>
      “But I presume a counter-revolution was soon effected. This
      condition of things could not have long existed. The country people in the
      neighborhood-visitors coming to see the establishment—would have
      given the alarm.”
    </p>
<p>
      “There you are out. The head rebel was too cunning for that. He
      admitted no visitors at all—with the exception, one day, of a very
      stupid-looking young gentleman of whom he had no reason to be afraid. He
      let him in to see the place—just by way of variety,—to have a
      little fun with him. As soon as he had gammoned him sufficiently, he let
      him out, and sent him about his business.”
    </p>
<p>
      “And how long, then, did the madmen reign?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Oh, a very long time, indeed—a month certainly—how much
      longer I can’t precisely say. In the meantime, the lunatics had a
      jolly season of it—that you may swear. They doffed their own shabby
      clothes, and made free with the family wardrobe and jewels. The cellars of
      the chateau were well stocked with wine; and these madmen are just the
      devils that know how to drink it. They lived well, I can tell you.”
    </p>
<p>
      “And the treatment—what was the particular species of
      treatment which the leader of the rebels put into operation?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Why, as for that, a madman is not necessarily a fool, as I have
      already observed; and it is my honest opinion that his treatment was a
      much better treatment than that which it superseded. It was a very capital
      system indeed—simple—neat—no trouble at all—in
      fact it was delicious it was.”
    </p>
<p>
      Here my host’s observations were cut short by another series of
      yells, of the same character as those which had previously disconcerted
      us. This time, however, they seemed to proceed from persons rapidly
      approaching.
    </p>
<p>
      “Gracious heavens!” I ejaculated—“the lunatics
      have most undoubtedly broken loose.”
    </p>
<p>
      “I very much fear it is so,” replied Monsieur Maillard, now
      becoming excessively pale. He had scarcely finished the sentence, before
      loud shouts and imprecations were heard beneath the windows; and,
      immediately afterward, it became evident that some persons outside were
      endeavoring to gain entrance into the room. The door was beaten with what
      appeared to be a sledge-hammer, and the shutters were wrenched and shaken
      with prodigious violence.
    </p>
<p>
      A scene of the most terrible confusion ensued. Monsieur Maillard, to my
      excessive astonishment threw himself under the side-board. I had expected
      more resolution at his hands. The members of the orchestra, who, for the
      last fifteen minutes, had been seemingly too much intoxicated to do duty,
      now sprang all at once to their feet and to their instruments, and,
      scrambling upon their table, broke out, with one accord, into, “Yankee
      Doodle,” which they performed, if not exactly in tune, at least with
      an energy superhuman, during the whole of the uproar.
    </p>
<p>
      Meantime, upon the main dining-table, among the bottles and glasses,
      leaped the gentleman who, with such difficulty, had been restrained from
      leaping there before. As soon as he fairly settled himself, he commenced
      an oration, which, no doubt, was a very capital one, if it could only have
      been heard. At the same moment, the man with the teetotum predilection,
      set himself to spinning around the apartment, with immense energy, and
      with arms outstretched at right angles with his body; so that he had all
      the air of a tee-totum in fact, and knocked everybody down that happened
      to get in his way. And now, too, hearing an incredible popping and fizzing
      of champagne, I discovered at length, that it proceeded from the person
      who performed the bottle of that delicate drink during dinner. And then,
      again, the frog-man croaked away as if the salvation of his soul depended
      upon every note that he uttered. And, in the midst of all this, the
      continuous braying of a donkey arose over all. As for my old friend,
      Madame Joyeuse, I really could have wept for the poor lady, she appeared
      so terribly perplexed. All she did, however, was to stand up in a corner,
      by the fireplace, and sing out incessantly at the top of her voice,
      “Cock-a-doodle-de-dooooooh!”
    </p>
<p>
      And now came the climax—the catastrophe of the drama. As no
      resistance, beyond whooping and yelling and cock-a-doodling, was offered
      to the encroachments of the party without, the ten windows were very
      speedily, and almost simultaneously, broken in. But I shall never forget
      the emotions of wonder and horror with which I gazed, when, leaping
      through these windows, and down among us pele-mele, fighting, stamping,
      scratching, and howling, there rushed a perfect army of what I took to be
      Chimpanzees, Ourang-Outangs, or big black baboons of the Cape of Good
      Hope.
    </p>
<p>
      I received a terrible beating—after which I rolled under a sofa and
      lay still. After lying there some fifteen minutes, during which time I
      listened with all my ears to what was going on in the room, I came to same
      satisfactory denouement of this tragedy. Monsieur Maillard, it appeared,
      in giving me the account of the lunatic who had excited his fellows to
      rebellion, had been merely relating his own exploits. This gentleman had,
      indeed, some two or three years before, been the superintendent of the
      establishment, but grew crazy himself, and so became a patient. This fact
      was unknown to the travelling companion who introduced me. The keepers,
      ten in number, having been suddenly overpowered, were first well tarred,
      then—carefully feathered, and then shut up in underground cells.
      They had been so imprisoned for more than a month, during which period
      Monsieur Maillard had generously allowed them not only the tar and
      feathers (which constituted his “system”), but some bread and
      abundance of water. The latter was pumped on them daily. At length, one
      escaping through a sewer, gave freedom to all the rest.
    </p>
<p>
      The “soothing system,” with important modifications, has been
      resumed at the chateau; yet I cannot help agreeing with Monsieur Maillard,
      that his own “treatment” was a very capital one of its kind.
      As he justly observed, it was “simple—neat—and gave no
      trouble at all—not the least.”
    </p>
<p>
      I have only to add that, although I have searched every library in Europe
      for the works of Doctor Tarr and Professor Fether, I have, up to the
      present day, utterly failed in my endeavors at procuring an edition.
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2150link2H_4_0005a">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      THE LITERARY LIFE OF <br/> THINGUM BOB, ESQ.
    </h2>
<h3>
      LATE EDITOR OF THE “GOOSETHERUMFOODLE.”
    </h3>
<h3>
      By Himself
    </h3>
<p>
<br/> <br/>
</p>
<p>
      I AM now growing in years, and—since I understand that Shakespeare
      and Mr. Emmons are deceased—it is not impossible that I may even
      die. It has occurred to me, therefore, that I may as well retire from the
      field of Letters and repose upon my laurels. But I am ambitious of
      signalizing my abdication of the literary sceptre by some important
      bequest to posterity; and, perhaps, I cannot do a better thing than just
      pen for it an account of my earlier career. My name, indeed, has been so
      long and so constantly before the public eye, that I am not only willing
      to admit the naturalness of the interest which it has everywhere excited,
      but ready to satisfy the extreme curiosity which it has inspired. In fact,
      it is no more than the duty of him who achieves greatness to leave behind
      him, in his ascent, such landmarks as may guide others to be great. I
      propose, therefore, in the present paper, (which I had some idea of
      calling “Memoranda to serve for the Literary History of America,”)
      to give a detail of those important, yet feeble and tottering first steps,
      by which, at length, I attained the high road to the pinnacle of human
      renown.
    </p>
<p>
      Of one’s very remote ancestors it is superfluous to say much. My
      father, Thomas Bob, Esq., stood for many years at the summit of his
      profession, which was that of a merchant-barber, in the city of Smug. His
      warehouse was the resort of all the principal people of the place, and
      especially of the editorial corps—a body which inspires all about it
      with profound veneration and awe. For my own part, I regarded them as
      gods, and drank in with avidity the rich wit and wisdom which continuously
      flowed from their august mouths during the process of what is styled
      “lather.” My first moment of positive inspiration must be
      dated from that ever-memorable epoch, when the brilliant conductor of the
      “Gad-Fly,” in the intervals of the important process just
      mentioned, recited aloud, before a conclave of our apprentices, an
      inimitable poem in honor of the “Only Genuine Oil-of-Bob,” (so
      called from its talented inventor, my father,) and for which effusion the
      editor of the “Fly” was remunerated with a regal liberality by
      the firm of Thomas Bob and company, merchant-barbers.
    </p>
<p>
      The genius of the stanzas to the “Oil-of-Bob” first breathed
      into me, I say, the divine <i>afflatus</i>. I resolved at once to become a
      great man and to commence by becoming a great poet. That very evening I
      fell upon my knees at the feet of my father.
    </p>
<p>
      “Father,” I said, “pardon me!—but I have a soul
      above lather. It is my firm intention to cut the shop. I would be an
      editor—I would be a poet—I would pen stanzas to the ‘Oil-of-Bob.’
      Pardon me and aid me to be great!”
    </p>
<p>
      “My dear Thingum,” replied my father, (I had been christened
      Thingum after a wealthy relative so surnamed,) “My dear Thingum,”
      he said, raising me from my knees by the ears—“Thingum, my
      boy, you’re a trump, and take after your father in having a soul.
      You have an immense head, too, and it must hold a great many brains. This
      I have long seen, and therefore had thoughts of making you a lawyer. The
      business, however, has grown ungenteel, and that of a politician don’t
      pay. Upon the whole you judge wisely;—the trade of editor is best:—and
      if you can be a poet at the same time,—as most of the editors are,
      by the by,—why you will kill two birds with one stone. To encourage
      you in the beginning of things, I will allow you a garret; pen, ink and
      paper; a rhyming dictionary; and a copy of the ‘Gad-Fly.’ I
      suppose you would scarcely demand any more.”
    </p>
<p>
      “I would be an ungrateful villain if I did,” I replied with
      enthusiasm. “Your generosity is boundless. I will repay it by making
      you the father of a genius.”
    </p>
<p>
      Thus ended my conference with the best of men, and immediately upon its
      termination, I betook myself with zeal to my poetical labors; as upon
      these, chiefly, I founded my hopes of ultimate elevation to the editorial
      chair.
    </p>
<p>
      In my first attempts at composition I found the stanzas to “The
      Oil-of-Bob” rather a draw-back than otherwise. Their splendor more
      dazzled than enlightened me. The contemplation of their excellence tended,
      naturally, to discourage me by comparison with my own abortions; so that
      for a long time I labored in vain. At length there came into my head one
      of those exquisitely original ideas which now and then <i>will</i>
      permeate the brain of a man of genius. It was this:—or, rather, thus
      was it carried into execution. From the rubbish of an old book-stall, in a
      very remote corner of the town, I got together several antique and
      altogether unknown or forgotten volumes. The bookseller sold them to me
      for a song. From one of these, which purported to be a translation of one
      Dante’s “Inferno,” I copied with remarkable neatness a
      long passage about a man named Ugolino, who had a parcel of brats. From
      another which contained a good many old plays by some person whose name I
      forget, I extracted in the same manner, and with the same care, a great
      number of lines about “angels” and “ministers saying
      grace,” and “goblins damned,” and more besides of that
      sort. From a third, which was the composition of some blind man or other,
      either a Greek or a Choctaw—I cannot be at the pains of remembering
      every trifle exactly—I took about fifty verses beginning with
      “Achilles’ wrath,” and “grease,” and
      something else. From a fourth, which I recollect was also the work of a
      blind man, I selected a page or two all about “hail” and
      “holy light”; and although a blind man has no business to
      write about light, still the verses were sufficiently good in their way.
    </p>
<p>
      Having made fair copies of these poems’ I signed every one of them
      “Oppodeldoc,” (a fine sonorous name,) and, doing each up
      nicely in a separate envelope, I despatched one to each of the four
      principal Magazines, with a request for speedy insertion and prompt pay.
      The result of this well conceived plan, however, (the success of which
      would have saved me much trouble in after life,) served to convince me
      that some editors are not to be bamboozled, and gave the <i>coup-de-grace</i>
      (as they say in France,) to my nascent hopes, (as they say in the city of
      the transcendentals.)
    </p>
<p>
      The fact is, that each and every one of the Magazines in question, gave
      Mr. “Oppodeldoc” a complete using-up, in the “Monthly
      Notices to Correspondents.” The “Hum-Drum” gave him a
      dressing after this fashion:
    </p>
<p>
      “‘Oppodeldoc,’ (whoever he is,) has sent us a long <i>tirade</i>
      concerning a bedlamite whom he styles ‘Ugolino,’ who had a
      great many children that should have been all whipped and sent to bed
      without their suppers. The whole affair is exceedingly tame—not to
      say <i>flat</i>. ‘Oppodeldoc,’ (whoever he is,) is entirely
      devoid of imagination—and imagination, in our humble opinion, is not
      only the soul of Poesy, but also its very heart. ‘Oppodeldoc,’
      (whoever he is,) has the audacity to demand of us, for his twattle, a
      ‘speedy insertion and prompt pay.’ We neither insert nor
      purchase any stuff of the sort. There can be no doubt, however, that he
      would meet with a ready sale for all the balderdash he can scribble, at
      the office of either the ‘Rowdy-Dow,’ the ‘Lollipop,’
      or the ‘Goosetherumfoodle.’”
    </p>
<p>
      All this, it must be acknowledged, was very severe upon “Oppodeldoc”—but
      the unkindest cut was putting the word Poesy in small caps. In those five
      pre-eminent letters what a world of bitterness is there not involved!
    </p>
<p>
      But “Oppodeldoc” was punished with equal severity in the
      “Rowdy-Dow,” which spoke thus:
    </p>
<p>
      “We have received a most singular and insolent communication from a
      person (whoever he is,) signing himself ‘Oppodeldoc’—thus
      desecrating the greatness of the illustrious Roman Emperor so named.
      Accompanying the letter of ‘Oppodeldoc,’ (whoever he is,) we
      find sundry lines of most disgusting and unmeaning rant about ‘angels
      and ministers of grace’—rant such as no madman short of a Nat
      Lee, or an ‘Oppodeldoc,’ could possibly perpetrate. And for
      this trash of trash, we are modestly requested to ‘pay promptly.’
      No sir—no! We pay for nothing of <i>that</i> sort. Apply to the
      ‘Hum-Drum,’ the ‘Lollipop,’ or the ‘Goosetherumfoodle.’
      These <i>periodicals</i> will undoubtedly accept any literary offal you
      may send them—and as undoubtedly <i>promise</i> to pay for it.”
    </p>
<p>
      This was bitter indeed upon poor “Oppodeldoc”; but, in this
      instance, the weight of the satire falls upon the “Humdrum,”
      the “Lollipop,” and the “Goosetherumfoodle,” who
      are pungently styled “<i>periodicals</i>”—in Italics,
      too—a thing that must have cut them to the heart.
    </p>
<p>
      Scarcely less savage was the “Lollipop,” which thus
      discoursed:
    </p>
<p>
      “Some <i>individual</i>, who rejoices in the appellation ‘Oppodeldoc,’
      (to what low uses are the names of the illustrious dead too often
      applied!) has enclosed us some fifty or sixty <i>verses</i> commencing
      after this fashion:
    </p>
<p>
<br/>
</p>
<p class="indent20">
      Achilles’ wrath, to Greece the direful spring
    </p>
<p class="indent20">
      Of woes unnumbered, &amp;c., &amp;c., &amp;c., &amp;c.
    </p>
<p>
<br/>
</p>
<p>
      “‘Oppodeldoc,’ (whoever he is,) is respectfully informed
      that there is not a printer’s devil in our office who is not in the
      daily habit of composing better <i>lines</i>. Those of ‘Oppodeldoc’
      will not <i>scan</i>. ‘Oppodeldoc’ should learn to <i>count</i>.
      But why he should have conceived the idea that <i>we</i>, (of all others,
      <i>we!</i>) would disgrace our pages with his ineffable nonsense, is
      utterly beyond comprehension. Why, the absurd twattle is scarcely good
      enough for the ‘Hum-Drum,’ the ‘Rowdy-Dow,’ the
      ‘Goosetherumfoodle’—things that are in the practice of
      publishing ‘Mother Goose’s Melodies’ as original lyrics.
      And ‘Oppodeldoc’ (whoever he is,) has even the assurance to
      demand <i>pay</i> for this drivel. Does ‘Oppodeldoc,’ (whoever
      he is,) know—is he aware that we could not be paid to insert it?”
    </p>
<p>
      As I perused this I felt myself growing gradually smaller and smaller, and
      when I came to the point at which the editor sneered at the poem as
      “verses” there was little more than an ounce of me left. As
      for “Oppodeldoc,” I began to experience <i>compassion</i> for
      the poor fellow. But the “Goosetherumfoodle” showed, if
      possible, less mercy than the “Lollipop.” It was the “Goosetherumfoodle”
      that said:
    </p>
<p>
      “A wretched poetaster, who signs himself ‘Oppodeldoc,’
      is silly enough to fancy that <i>we</i> will print and <i>pay for</i> a
      medley of incoherent and ungrammatical bombast which he has transmitted to
      us, and which commences with the following most <i>intelligible</i> line:
    </p>
<p>
<br/>
</p>
<p class="indent20">
      ‘Hail, Holy Light! Offspring of Heaven, first born.’
    </p>
<p>
<br/>
</p>
<p>
      “We say, ‘most <i>intelligible</i>’ ‘Oppodeldoc,’
      (whoever he is,) will be kind enough to tell us, perhaps, how ‘<i>hail</i>’
      can be ‘<i>holy light</i>’ We always regarded it as <i>frozen
      rain</i>. Will he inform us, also, how frozen rain can be, at one and the
      same time, both ‘holy light,’ (whatever that is,) and an
      ‘offspring?’—which latter term, (if we understand any
      thing about English,) is only employed, with propriety, in reference to
      small babies of about six weeks old. But it is preposterous to descant
      upon such absurdity—although ‘Oppodeldoc,’ (whoever he
      is,) has the unparalleled effrontery to suppose that we will not only
      ‘insert’ his ignorant ravings, but (absolutely) <i>pay for
      them!</i>
</p>
<p>
      “Now this is fine—it is rich!—and we have half a mind to
      punish this young scribbler for his egotism, by really publishing his
      effusion, <i>verbatim et literatim</i>, as he has written it. We could
      inflict no punishment so severe, and we <i>would</i> inflict it, but for
      the boredom which we should cause our readers in so doing.
    </p>
<p>
      “Let ‘Oppodeldoc,’ (whoever he is,) send any future <i>composition</i>
      of like character to the ‘Hum-Drum,’ the ‘Lollipop,’
      or the ‘Rowdy-Dow,’ <i>They</i> will ‘insert’ it.
      <i>They</i> ‘insert’ every month just such stuff. Send it to
      them. WE are not to be insulted with impunity.”
    </p>
<p>
      This made an end of me; and as for the “HumDrum,” the “Rowdy-Dow,”
      and the “Lollipop,” I never could comprehend how they survived
      it. The putting <i>them</i> in the smallest possible <i>minion</i>, (that
      was the rub—thereby insinuating their lowness—their baseness,)
      while WE stood looking down upon them in gigantic capitals!—oh it
      was <i>too</i> bitter!—it was wormwood—it was gall. Had I been
      either of these periodicals I would have spared no pains to have the
      “Goosetherumfoodle” prosecuted. It might have been done under
      the Act for the “Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.” As for
      “Oppodeldoc,” (whoever he was), I had by this time lost all
      patience with the fellow, and sympathized with him no longer. He was a
      fool, beyond doubt, (whoever he was,) and got not a kick more than he
      deserved.
    </p>
<p>
      The result of my experiment with the old books, convinced me, in the first
      place, that “honesty is the best policy,” and, in the second,
      that if I could not write better than Mr. Dante, and the two blind men,
      and the rest of the old set, it would, at least, be a difficult matter to
      write worse. I took heart, therefore, and determined to prosecute the
      “entirely original,” (as they say on the covers of the
      magazines,) at whatever cost of study and pains. I again placed before my
      eyes, as a model, the brilliant stanzas on “The Oil-of-Bob” by
      the editor of the “Gad-Fly,” and resolved to construct an Ode
      on the same sublime theme, in rivalry of what had already been done.
    </p>
<p>
      With my first verse I had no material difficulty. It ran thus: “To
      pen an Ode upon the ‘Oil-of-Bob.’”
    </p>
<p>
      Having carefully looked out, however, all the legitimate rhymes to “Bob,”
      I found it impossible to proceed. In this dilemma I had recourse to
      paternal aid; and, after some hours of mature thought, my father and
      myself thus constructed the poem:
    </p>
<p>
<br/>
</p>
<p class="indent25">
<i>“To pen an Ode upon the “Oil-of-Bob” </i>
</p>
<p class="indent25">
      Is all sorts of a job.
    </p>
<p class="indent30">
      (Signed.) Snob.
    </p>
<p>
<br/>
</p>
<p>
      To be sure, this composition was of no very great length—but I
      “have yet to learn” as they say in the Edinburgh Review, that
      the mere extent of a literary work has any thing to do with its merit. As
      for the Quarterly cant about “sustained effort,” it is
      impossible to see the sense of it. Upon the whole, therefore, I was
      satisfied with the success of my maiden attempt, and now the only question
      regarded the disposal I should make of it. My father suggested that I
      should send it to the “Gad-Fly”—but there were two
      reasons which operated to prevent me from so doing. I dreaded the jealousy
      of the editor—and I had ascertained that he did not pay for original
      contributions. I therefore, after due deliberation, consigned the article
      to the more dignified pages of the “Lollipop,” and awaited the
      event in anxiety, but with resignation.
    </p>
<p>
      In the very next published number I had the proud satisfaction of seeing
      my poem printed at length, as the leading article, with the following
      significant words, prefixed in italics and between brackets:
    </p>
<p>
<i>We call the attention of our readers to the subjoined admirable stanza
      on “The Oil of Bob.” We need say nothing of their sublimity,
      or their pathos:—it is impossible to peruse them without tears.
      Those who have been nauseated with a sad dose on the same august topic
      from the goose quill of the editor of the “Gad Fly” will do
      well to compare the two compositions. </i>
</p>
<p>
      P. S. We are consumed with anxiety to probe the mystery which envelops the
      evident pseudonym “Snob.” May we hope for a personal
      interview?
    </p>
<p>
      All this was scarcely more than justice, but it was, I confess, rather
      more than I had expected:—I acknowledged this, be it observed, to
      the everlasting disgrace of my country and of mankind. I lost no time,
      however, in calling upon the editor of the “Lollipop,” and had
      the good fortune to find this gentleman at home. He saluted me with an air
      of profound respect, slightly blended with a fatherly and patronizing
      admiration, wrought in him, no doubt, by my appearance of extreme youth
      and inexperience. Begging me to be seated, he entered at once upon the
      subject of my poem;—but modesty will ever forbid me to repeat the
      thousand compliments which he lavished upon me. The eulogies of Mr. Crab,
      (such was the editor’s name,) were, however, by no means fulsomely
      indiscriminate. He analyzed my composition with much freedom and great
      ability—not hesitating to point out a few trivial defects—a
      circumstance which elevated him highly in my esteem. The “Gad-Fly”
      was, of course, brought upon the <i>tapis</i>, and I hope never to be
      subjected to a criticism so searching, or to rebukes so withering, as were
      bestowed by Mr. Crab upon that unhappy effusion. I had been accustomed to
      regard the editor of the “Gad-Fly” as something superhuman;
      but Mr. Crab soon disabused me of that idea. He set the literary as well
      as the personal character of the Fly (so Mr. C. satirically designated the
      rival editor,) in its true light. He, the Fly, was very little better than
      he should be. He had written infamous things. He was a penny-a-liner, and
      a buffoon. He was a villain. He had composed a tragedy which set the whole
      country in a guffaw, and a farce which deluged the universe in tears.
      Besides all this, he had the impudence to pen what he meant for a lampoon
      upon himself, (Mr. Crab,) and the temerity to style him “an ass.”
      Should I at any time wish to express my opinion of Mr. Fry, the pages of
      the “Lollipop,” Mr. Crab assured me, were at my unlimited
      disposal. In the meantime, as it was very certain that I would be attacked
      in the Fly for my attempt at composing a rival poem on the “Oil-of-Bob,”
      he (Mr. Crab,) would take it upon himself to attend, pointedly, to my
      private and personal interests. If I were not made a man of at once, it
      should not be the fault of himself, (Mr. Crab.)
    </p>
<p>
      Mr. Crab having now paused in his discourse, (the latter portion of which
      I found it impossible to comprehend,) I ventured to suggest something
      about the remuneration which I had been taught to expect for my poem, by
      an announcement on the cover of the “Lollipop,” declaring that
      it, (the “Lollipop,”) “insisted upon being permitted to
      pay exorbitant prices for all accepted contributions;—frequently
      expending more money for a single brief poem than the whole annual cost of
      the ‘HumDrum,’ the ‘Rowdy-Dow,’ and the ‘Goosetherumfoodle’
      combined.”
    </p>
<p>
      As I mentioned the word “remuneration,” Mr. Crab first opened
      his eyes, and then his mouth, to quite a remarkable extent; causing his
      personal appearance to resemble that of a highly-agitated elderly duck in
      the act of quacking;—and in this condition he remained, (ever and
      anon pressing his hands tightly to his forehead, as if in a state of
      desperate bewilderment) until I had nearly made an end of what I had to
      say.
    </p>
<p>
      Upon my conclusion, he sank back into his seat, as if much overcome,
      letting his arms fall lifelessly by his side, but keeping his mouth still
      rigorously open, after the fashion of the duck. While I remained in
      speechless astonishment at behavior so alarming, he suddenly leaped to his
      feet and made a rush at the bell-rope; but just as he reached this, he
      appeared to have altered his intention, whatever it was, for he dived
      under a table and immediately re-appeared with a cudgel. This he was in
      the act of uplifting, (for what purpose I am at a loss to imagine,) when,
      all at once, there came a benign smile over his features, and he sank
      placidly back in his chair.
    </p>
<p>
      “Mr. Bob,” he said, (for I had sent up my card before
      ascending myself,) “Mr. Bob, you are a young man, I presume—<i>very?</i>”
    </p>
<p>
      I assented; adding that I had not yet concluded my third lustrum.
    </p>
<p>
      “Ah!” he replied, “very good! I see how it is—say
      no more! Touching this matter of compensation, what you observe is very
      just: in fact it is excessively so. But ah—ah—the <i>first</i>
      contribution—the <i>first</i>, I say,—it is never the Magazine
      custom to pay for—you comprehend, eh? The truth is, we are usually
      the <i>recipients</i> in such case.” [Mr. Crab smiled blandly as he
      emphasized the word “recipients.”] “For the most part,
      we are <i>paid</i> for the insertion of a maiden attempt—especially
      in verse. In the second place, Mr. Bob, the Magazine rule is never to
      disburse what we term in France the <i>argent comptant</i>—I have no
      doubt you understand. In a quarter or two after publication of the article—or
      in a year or two—we make no objection to giving our note at nine
      months:—provided always that we can so arrange our affairs as to be
      quite certain of a ‘burst up’ in six. I really <i>do</i> hope,
      Mr. Bob, that you will look upon this explanation as satisfactory.”
      Here Mr. Crab concluded, and the tears stood in his eyes.
    </p>
<p>
      Grieved to the soul at having been, however innocently, the cause of pain
      to so eminent and so sensitive a man, I hastened to apologize, and to
      reassure him, by expressing my perfect coincidence with his views, as well
      as my entire appreciation of the delicacy of his position. Having done all
      this in a neat speech, I took leave.
    </p>
<p>
      One fine morning, very shortly afterwards, “I awoke and found myself
      famous.” The extent of my renown will be best estimated by reference
      to the editorial opinions of the day. These opinions, it will be seen,
      were embodied in critical notices of the number of the “Lollipop”
      containing my poem, and are perfectly satisfactory, conclusive and clear
      with the exception, perhaps, of the hieroglyphical marks, “<i>Sep</i>.
      15—1 t.” appended to each of the critiques.
    </p>
<p>
      The “Owl,” a journal of profound sagacity, and well known for
      the deliberate gravity of its literary decisions—the “Owl,”
      I say, spoke as follows:
    </p>
<p>
<i>“‘The Lollipop!’ The October number of this delicious
      Magazine surpasses its predecessors, and sets competition at defiance. In
      the beauty of its typography and paper—in the number and excellence
      of its steel plates—as well as in the literary merit of its
      contributions—the ‘Lollipop’ compares with its
      slow-paced rivals as Hyperion with a Satyr. The ‘Hum-Drum,’
      the ‘Rowdy-Dow,’ and the ‘Goosetherumfoodle,’
      excel, it is true, in braggadocio, but, in all other points, give us the
      ‘Lollipop!’ How this celebrated journal can sustain its
      evidently tremendous expenses, is more than we can understand. To be sure,
      it has a circulation of 100,000, and its subscription-list has increased
      one-fourth during the last month; but, on the other hand, the sums it
      disburses constantly for contributions are inconceivable. It is reported
      that Mr. Slyass received no less than thirty-seven and a half cents for
      his inimitable paper on ‘Pigs.’ With Mr. Crab, as editor, and
      with such names upon the list of contributors as Snob and Slyass, there
      can be no such word as ‘fail’ for the Lollipop.’ Go and
      subscribe. Sep. 15—1 t.”</i>
</p>
<p>
      I must say that I was gratified with this high-toned notice from a paper
      so respectable as the “Owl.” The placing my name—that is
      to say, my <i>nom de guerre</i>—in priority of station to that of
      the great Slyass, was a compliment as happy as I felt it to be deserved.
    </p>
<p>
      My attention was next arrested by these paragraphs in the “Toad”—a
      print highly distinguished for its uprightness, and independence—for
      its entire freedom from sycophancy and subservience to the givers of
      dinners:
    </p>
<p>
<i>“The ‘Lollipop’ for October is out in advance of all
      its contemporaries, and infinitely surpasses them, of course, in the
      splendor of its embellishments, as well as in the richness of its literary
      contents. The ‘Hum-Drum,’ the ‘Rowdy-Dow,’ and the
      ‘Goosetherumfoodle’ excel, we admit, in braggadocio, but, in
      all other points, give us the ‘Lollipop. How this celebrated
      Magazine can sustain its evidently tremendous expenses, is more than we
      can understand. To be sure, it has a circulation of 200,000, and its
      subscription list has increased one-third during the last fortnight, but
      on the other hand, the sums it disburses, monthly, for contributions, are
      fearfully great. We learn that Mr. Mumblethumb received no less than fifty
      cents for his late ‘Monody in a Mud-Puddle.’ </i>
</p>
<p>
      “Among the original contributors to the present number we notice,
      (besides the eminent editor, Mr. Crab,) such men as Snob, Slyass, and
      Mumblethumb. Apart from the editorial matter, the most valuable paper,
      nevertheless, is, we think, a poetical gem by ‘Snob, on the ‘Oil-of-Bob’—but
      our readers must not suppose from the title of this incomparable bijou<i>,
      that it bears any similitude to some balderdash on the same subject by a
      certain contemptible individual whose name is unmentionable to ears
      polite. The </i>present<i> poem ‘On the Oil-of-Bob,’ has
      excited universal anxiety and curiosity in respect to the owner of the
      evident pseudonym, ‘Snob’—a curiosity which, happily, we
      have it in our power to satisfy. ‘Snob’ is the nom de plume of
      Mr. Thingum Bob, of this city,—a relative of the great Mr. Thingum,
      (after whom he is named,) and otherwise connected with the most
      illustrious families of the State. His father, Thomas Bob, Esq., is an
      opulent merchant in Smug. </i>Sep<i>. 15—1t.”</i>
</p>
<p>
      This generous approbation touched me to the heart—the more
      especially as it emanated from a source so avowedly—so proverbially
      pure as the “Toad.” The word “balderdash,” as
      applied to the “Oil-of-Bob” of the Fly, I considered
      singularly pungent and appropriate. The words “gem” and
      “<i>bijou</i>,” however, used in reference to my composition,
      struck me as being, in some degree, feeble, and seemed to me to be
      deficient in force. They were not sufficiently <i>prononc?s</i>, (as we
      have it in France).
    </p>
<p>
      I had hardly finished reading the “Toad,” when a friend placed
      in my hands a copy of the “Mole,” a daily, enjoying high
      reputation for the keenness of its perception about matters in general,
      and for the open, honest, above-ground style of its editorials. The
      “Mole” spoke of the “Lollipop” as follows:
    </p>
<p>
<i>“We have just received the ‘Lollipop’ for October,
      and must say that never before have we perused any single number of any
      periodical which afforded us a felicity so supreme. We speak advisedly.
      The ‘Hum-Drum,’ the ‘Rowdy-Dow’ and the ‘Goosetherumfoodle’
      must look well to their laurels. These prints, no doubt, surpass every
      thing in loudness of pretension, but, in all other points, give us the
      ‘Lollipop!’ How this celebrated Magazine can sustain its
      evidently tremendous expenses, is more than we can comprehend. To be sure,
      it has a circulation of 300,000 and its subscription-list has increased
      one-half within the last week, but then the sum it disburses, monthly, for
      contributions, is astoundingly enormous. We have it upon good authority,
      that Mr. Fatquack received no less than sixty-two cents and a half for his
      late Domestic Nouvelette, the ‘Dish-Clout.’ </i>
</p>
<p>
      “The contributors to the number before us are Mr. Crab, (the eminent
      editor,) Snob, Mumblethumb, Fatquack, and others; but, after the
      inimitable compositions of the editor himself, we prefer a diamond-like
      effusion from the pen of a rising poet who writes over the signature
      ‘Snob’—a nom de guerre which we predict will one day
      extinguish the radiance of ‘Boz.’ ‘Snob,’ we
      learn, is a Mr. Thingum Bob, Esq., sole heir of a wealthy merchant of this
      city, Thomas Bob, Esq., and a near relative of the distinguished Mr.
      Thingum. The title of Mr. B.‘s admirable poem is the ‘Oil-of-Bob’—a
      somewhat unfortunate name, by-the-by, as some contemptible vagabond
      connected with the penny press has already disgusted the town with a great
      deal of drivel upon the same topic. There will be no danger, however, of
      confounding the compositions. Sep. 15-z t.”
    </p>
<p>
      The generous approbation of so clear-sighted a journal as the “Mole”
      penetrated my soul with delight. The only objection which occurred to me
      was, that the terms “contemptible vagabond” might have been
      better written “<i>odious and</i> contemptible, <i>wretch, villain</i>
      and <i>vagabond</i>.” This would have sounded more gracefully, I
      think. “Diamond-like,” also, was scarcely, it will be
      admitted, of sufficient intensity to express what the “Mole”
      evidently <i>thought</i> of the brilliancy of the “Oil-of-Bob.”
    </p>
<p>
      On the same afternoon in which I saw these notices in the “Owl,”
      the “Toad,” and the “Mole” I happened to meet with
      a copy of the “Daddy-Long-Legs,” a periodical proverbial for
      the extreme extent of its understanding. And it was the “Daddy-Long-Legs”
      which spoke thus:
    </p>
<p>
<i>“The ‘Lollipop,’! This gorgeous Magazine is already
      before the public for October. The question of preeminence is forever put
      to rest, and hereafter it will be excessively preposterous in the ‘Hum-Drum,’
      the ‘Rowdy-Dow,’ or the ‘Goosetherumfoodle,’ to
      make any farther spasmodic attempts at competition. These journals may
      excel the ‘Lollipop’ in outcry, but, in all other points, give
      us the ‘Lollipop!’ How this celebrated Magazine can sustain
      its evidently tremendous expenses, is past comprehension. To be sure it
      has a circulation of precisely half a million, and its subscription-list
      has increased seventy-five per cent, within the last couple of days; but
      then the sums it disburses, monthly, for contributions, are scarcely
      credible; we are cognizant of the fact, that Mademoiselle Cribalittle
      received no less than eighty-seven cents and a half for her late valuable
      Revolutionary Tale, entitled ‘The York-Town Katy-Did, and the
      Bunker-Hill Katy-Didn’t.’ </i>
</p>
<p>
      “The most able papers in the present number, are, of course, those
      furnished by the editor, (the eminent Mr. Crab,) but there are numerous
      magnificent contributions from such names as Snob, Mademoiselle
      Cribalittle, Slyass, Mrs. Fibalittle, Mumblethumb, Mrs. Squibalittle, and
      last, though not least, Fatquack. The world may well be challenged to
      produce so rich a galaxy of genius.
    </p>
<p>
      “The poem over the signature ‘Snob’ is, we find,
      attracting universal commendation, and, we are constrained to say,
      deserves, if possible, even more applause than it has received. The
      ‘Oil-of-Bob’ is the title of this masterpiece of eloquence and
      art. One or two of our readers may<i> have a </i>very<i> faint, although
      sufficiently disgusting recollection of a poem (?) similarly entitled, the
      perpetration of a miserable penny-a-liner, mendicant, and cut-throat,
      connected in the capacity of scullion, we believe, with one of the
      indecent prints about the purlieus of the city; we beg them, for God’s
      sake, not to confound the compositions. The author of the ‘Oil-of-Bob’
      is, we hear, Thingum Bob, Esq., a gentleman of high genius, and a scholar.
      ‘Snob’ is merely a </i>nom-de-guerre. Sept<i>. 15—1 t.”</i>
</p>
<p>
      I could scarcely restrain my indignation while I perused the concluding
      portions of this diatribe. It was clear to me that the yea-nay manner—not
      to say the gentleness—the positive forbearance with which the
      “Daddy-Long-Legs” spoke of that pig, the editor of the “Gad-Fly”—it
      was evident to me, I say, that this gentleness of speech could proceed
      from nothing else than a partiality for the Fly—whom it was clearly
      the intention of the “Daddy-Long-Legs” to elevate into
      reputation at my expense. Any one, indeed, might perceive, with half an
      eye, that, had the real design of the “Daddy” been what it
      wished to appear, it, (the “Daddy,”) might have expressed
      itself in terms more direct, more pungent, and altogether more to the
      purpose. The words “penny-a-liner,” “mendicant,”
      “scullion,” and “cut-throat,” were epithets so
      intentionally inexpressive and equivocal, as to be worse than nothing when
      applied to the author of the very worst stanzas ever penned by one of the
      human race. We all know what is meant by “damning with faint praise,”
      and, on the other hand, who could fail seeing through the covert purpose
      of the “Daddy”—that of glorifying with feeble abuse?
    </p>
<p>
      What the “Daddy” chose to say of the Fly, however, was no
      business of mine. What it said of myself <i>was</i>. After the noble
      manner in which the “Owl,” the “Toad,” the “Mole,”
      had expressed themselves in respect to my ability, it was rather too much
      to be coolly spoken of by a thing like the “Daddy-Long-Legs,”
      as merely “a gentleman of high genius and a scholar.”
      Gentleman indeed! I made up my mind at once, either to get a written
      apology from the “Daddy-Long-Legs,” or to call it out.
    </p>
<p>
      Full of this purpose, I looked about me to find a friend whom I could
      entrust with a message to his Daddyship, and as the editor of the “Lollipop”
      had given me marked tokens of regard, I at length concluded to seek
      assistance upon the present occasion.
    </p>
<p>
      I have never yet been able to account, in a manner satisfactory to my own
      understanding, for the <i>very</i> peculiar countenance and demeanor with
      which Mr. Crab listened to me, as I unfolded to him my design. He again
      went through the scene of the bell-rope and cudgel, and did not omit the
      duck. At one period I thought he really intended to quack. His fit,
      nevertheless, finally subsided as before, and he began to act and speak in
      a rational way. He declined bearing the cartel, however, and in fact,
      dissuaded me from sending it at all; but was candid enough to admit that
      the “Daddy-Long-Legs” had been disgracefully in the wrong—more
      especially in what related to the epithets “gentleman and scholar.”
    </p>
<p>
      Towards the end of this interview with Mr. Crab, who really appeared to
      take a paternal interest in my welfare, he suggested to me that I might
      turn an honest penny, and, at the same time, advance my reputation, by
      occasionally playing Thomas Hawk for the “Lollipop.”
    </p>
<p>
      I begged Mr. Crab to inform me who was Mr. Thomas Hawk, and how it was
      expected that I should play him.
    </p>
<p>
      Here Mr. Crab again “made great eyes,” (as we say in Germany,)
      but at length, recovering himself from a profound attack of astonishment,
      he assured me that he employed the words “Thomas Hawk” to
      avoid the colloquialism, Tommy, which was low—but that the true idea
      was Tommy Hawk—or tomahawk—and that by “playing tomahawk”
      he referred to scalping, brow-beating and otherwise using-up the herd of
      poor-devil authors.
    </p>
<p>
      I assured my patron that, if this was all, I was perfectly resigned to the
      task of playing Thomas Hawk. Hereupon Mr. Crab desired me to use-up the
      editor of the “Gad-Fly” forthwith, in the fiercest style
      within the scope of my ability, and as a specimen of my powers. This I
      did, upon the spot, in a review of the original “Oil-of-Bob,”
      occupying thirty-six pages of the “Lollipop.” I found playing
      Thomas Hawk, indeed, a far less onerous occupation than poetizing; for I
      went upon <i>system</i> altogether, and thus it was easy to do the thing
      thoroughly and well. My practice was this. I bought auction copies (cheap)
      of “Lord Brougham’s Speeches,” “Cobbett’s
      Complete Works,” the “New Slang-Syllabus,” the “Whole
      Art of Snubbing,” “Prentice’s Billingsgate,”
      (folio edition,) and “Lewis G. Clarke on Tongue.” These works
      I cut up thoroughly with a currycomb, and then, throwing the shreds into a
      sieve, sifted out carefully all that might be thought decent, (a mere
      trifle); reserving the hard phrases, which I threw into a large tin
      pepper-castor with longitudinal holes, so that an entire sentence could
      get through without material injury. The mixture was then ready for use.
      When called upon to play Thomas Hawk, I anointed a sheet of fools-cap with
      the white of a gander’s egg; then, shredding the thing to be
      reviewed as I had previously shredded the books,—only with more
      care, so as to get every word separate—I threw the latter shreds in
      with the former, screwed on the lid of the castor, gave it a shake, and so
      dusted out the mixture upon the egg’d foolscap; where it stuck. The
      effect was beautiful to behold. It was captivating. Indeed, the reviews I
      brought to pass by this simple expedient have never been approached, and
      were the wonder of the world. At first, through bashfulness—the
      result of inexperience—I was a little put out by a certain
      inconsistency—a certain air of the <i>bizarre</i>, (as we say in
      France,) worn by the composition as a whole. All the phrases did not <i>fit</i>,
      (as we say in the Anglo-Saxon). Many were quite awry. Some, even, were
      up-side-down; and there were none of them which were not, in some measure,
      injured in regard to effect, by this latter species of accident, when it
      occurred;—with the exception of Mr. Lewis Clarke’s paragraphs,
      which were so vigorous, and altogether stout, that they seemed not
      particularly disconcerted by any extreme of position, but looked equally
      happy and satisfactory, whether on their heads, or on their heels.
    </p>
<p>
      What became of the editor of the “Gad-Fly,” after the
      publication of my criticism on his “Oil-of-Bob,” it is
      somewhat difficult to determine. The most reasonable conclusion is, that
      he wept himself to death. At all events he disappeared instantaneously
      from the face of the earth, and no man has seen even the ghost of him
      since.
    </p>
<p>
      This matter having been properly accomplished, and the Furies appeased, I
      grew at once into high favor with Mr. Crab. He took me into his
      confidence, gave me a permanent situation as Thomas Hawk of the “Lollipop,”
      and, as for the present, he could afford me no salary, allowed me to
      profit, at discretion, by his advice.
    </p>
<p>
      “My dear Thingum,” said he to me one day after dinner, “I
      respect your abilities and love you as a son. You shall be my heir. When I
      die I will bequeath you the ‘Lollipop.’ In the meantime I will
      make a man of you—I <i>will</i>—provided always that you
      follow my counsel. The first thing to do is to get rid of the old bore.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Boar?” said I inquiringly—“pig, eh?—<i>aper?</i>
      (as we say in Latin)—who?—where?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Your father,” said he.
    </p>
<p>
      “Precisely,” I replied,—“pig.”
    </p>
<p>
      “You have your fortune to make, Thingum,” resumed Mr. Crab,
      “and that governor of yours is a millstone about your neck. We must
      cut him at once.” [Here I took out my knife.] “We must cut
      him,” continued Mr. Crab, “decidedly and forever. He won’t
      do—he <i>won’t</i>. Upon second thoughts, you had better kick
      him, or cane him, or something of that kind.”
    </p>
<p>
      “What do you say,” I suggested modestly, “to my kicking
      him in the first instance, caning him afterwards, and winding up by
      tweaking his nose?”
    </p>
<p>
      Mr. Crab looked at me musingly for some moments, and then answered:
    </p>
<p>
      “I think, Mr. Bob, that what you propose would answer sufficiently
      well—indeed remarkably well—that is to say, as far as it went—but
      barbers are exceedingly hard to cut, and I think, upon the whole, that,
      having performed upon Thomas Bob the operations you suggest, it would be
      advisable to blacken, with your fists, both his eyes, very carefully and
      thoroughly, to prevent his ever seeing you again in fashionable
      promenades. After doing this, I really do not perceive that you can do any
      more. However—it might be just as well to roll him once or twice in
      the gutter, and then put him in charge of the police. Any time the next
      morning you can call at the watch-house and swear an assault.”
    </p>
<p>
      I was much affected by the kindness of feeling towards me personally,
      which was evinced in this excellent advice of Mr. Crab, and I did not fail
      to profit by it forthwith. The result was, that I got rid of the old bore,
      and began to feel a little independent and gentleman-like. The want of
      money, however, was, for a few weeks, a source of some discomfort; but at
      length, by carefully putting to use my two eyes, and observing how matters
      went just in front of my nose, I perceived how the thing was to be brought
      about. I say “thing”—be it observed—for they tell
      me the Latin for it is <i>rem</i>. By the way, talking of Latin, can any
      one tell me the meaning of <i>quocunque</i>—or what is the meaning
      of <i>modo?</i>
</p>
<p>
      My plan was exceedingly simple. I bought, for a song, a sixteenth of the
      “Snapping-Turtle”:—that was all. The thing was <i>done</i>,
      and I put money in my purse. There were some trivial arrangements
      afterwards, to be sure; but these formed no portion of the plan. They were
      a consequence—a result. For example, I bought pen, ink and paper,
      and put them into furious activity. Having thus completed a Magazine
      article, I gave it, for appellation, “Fol-Lol, <i>by the Author of</i>
      ‘The Oil-of-Bob,’” and enveloped it to the “Goosetherumfoodle.”
      That journal, however, having pronounced it “twattle” in the
      “Monthly Notices to Correspondents,” I reheaded the paper
      “‘Hey-Diddle-Diddle,’ by ThingumBob, Esq., Author of the
      Ode on ‘The Oil-of-Bob,’ <i>and</i> Editor of the ‘Snapping-Turtle.’
      “With this amendment, I re-enclosed it to the “Goosetherumfoodle,”
      and, while I awaited a reply, published daily, in the “Turtle,”
      six columns of what may be termed philosophical and analytical
      investigation of the literary merits of the “Goosetherumfoodle,”
      as well as of the personal character of the editor of the “Goosetherumfoodle.”
      At the end of a week the “Goosetherumfoodle” discovered that
      it had, by some odd mistake, “confounded a stupid article, headed
      ‘Hey-Diddle-Diddle’ and composed by some unknown ignoramus,
      with a gem of resplendent lustre similarly entitled, the work of Thingum
      Bob, Esq., the celebrated author of ‘The Oil-of-Bob.’”
      The “Goosetherumfoodle” deeply “regretted this very
      natural accident,” and promised, moreover, an insertion of the <i>genuine</i>
      “Hey-Diddle-Diddle” in the very next number of the Magazine.
    </p>
<p>
      The fact is, I <i>thought</i>—I <i>really</i> thought—I
      thought at the time—I thought <i>then</i>—and have no reason
      for thinking otherwise <i>now</i>—that the “Goosetherumfoodle”
      <i>did</i> make a mistake. With the best intentions in the world, I never
      knew any thing that made as many singular mistakes as the “Goosetherumfoodle.”
      From that day I took a liking to the “Goosetherumfoodle,” and
      the result was I soon saw into the very depths of its literary merits, and
      did not fail to expatiate upon them, in the “Turtle,” whenever
      a fitting opportunity occurred. And it is to be regarded as a very
      peculiar coincidence—as one of those positively <i>remarkable</i>
      coincidences which set a man to serious thinking—that just such a
      total revolution of opinion—just such entire <i>bouleversement</i>,
      (as we say in French,)—just such thorough <i>topsiturviness</i>, (if
      I may be permitted to employ a rather forcible term of the Choctaws,) as
      happened, <i>pro</i> and <i>con</i>, between myself on the one part, and
      the “Goosetherumfoodle” on the other, did actually again
      happen, in a brief period afterwards, and with precisely similar
      circumstances, in the case of myself and the “Rowdy-Dow,” and
      in the case of myself and the “HumDrum.”
    </p>
<p>
      Thus it was that, by a master-stroke of genius, I at length consummated my
      triumphs by “putting money in my purse,” and thus may be said
      really and fairly to have commenced that brilliant and eventful career
      which rendered me illustrious, and which now enables me to say, with
      Chateaubriand, “I have made history”—“<i>I’ai
      fait l’histoire</i>.”
    </p>
<p>
      I have indeed “made history.” From the bright epoch which I
      now record, my actions—my works—are the property of mankind.
      They are familiar to the world. It is, then, needless for me to detail
      how, soaring rapidly, I fell heir to the “Lollipop”—how
      I merged this journal in the “Hum-Drum”—how again I made
      purchase of the “Rowdy-Dow,” thus combining the three
      periodicals—how, lastly, I effected a bargain for the sole remaining
      rival, and united all the literature of the country in one magnificent
      Magazine, known everywhere as the
    </p>
<p>
<br/>
</p>
<p class="indent20">
      “Rowdy-Dow, Lollipop, Hum-Drum,
    </p>
<p class="indent25">
      and
    </p>
<p class="indent25">
      goosetherumfoodlb”
    </p>
<p>
<br/>
</p>
<p>
      Yes; I have made history. My fame is universal. It extends to the
      uttermost ends of the earth. You cannot take up a common newspaper in
      which you shall not see some allusion to the immortal Thingum Bob. It is
      Mr. Thingum Bob said so, and Mr. Thingum Bob wrote this, and Mr. Thingum
      Bob did that. But I am meek and expire with an humble heart. After all,
      what is it?—this indescribable something which men will persist in
      terming “genius?” I agree with Buffon—with Hogarth—it
      is but <i>diligence</i> after all.
    </p>
<p>
      Look at <i>me!</i>—how I labored—how I toiled—how I
      wrote! Ye Gods, did I <i>not</i> write? I knew not the word “ease.”
      By day I adhered to my desk, and at night, a pale student, I consumed the
      midnight oil. You should have seen me—you <i>should</i>. I leaned to
      the right. I leaned to the left. I sat forward. I sat backward. I sat upon
      end. I sat <i>tete baiss?e</i>, (as they have it in the Kickapoo,) bowing
      my head close to the alabaster page. And, through all, I—<i>wrote</i>.
      Through joy and through sorrow, I—<i>wrote</i>. Through hunger and
      through thirst, I—<i>wrote</i>. Through good report and through ill
      report, I—<i>wrote</i>. Through sunshine and through moonshine, I—<i>wrote.
      What</i> I wrote it is unnecessary to say. The <i>style!</i>—that
      was the thing. I caught it from Fatquack—whizz!—fizz!——
      and I am giving you a specimen of it now.
    </p>
<div style="height: 6em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<p>
<a name="2150link2H_4_0006">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      HOW TO WRITE A BLACKWOOD ARTICLE.
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
      “In the name of the Prophet—figs!!”

      Cry of the Turkish fig-peddler.
</pre>
<p>
      I PRESUME everybody has heard of me. My name is the Signora Psyche
      Zenobia. This I know to be a fact. Nobody but my enemies ever calls me
      Suky Snobbs. I have been assured that Suky is but a vulgar corruption of
      Psyche, which is good Greek, and means “the soul” (that’s
      me, I’m all soul) and sometimes “a butterfly,” which
      latter meaning undoubtedly alludes to my appearance in my new crimson
      satin dress, with the sky-blue Arabian mantelet, and the trimmings of
      green agraffas, and the seven flounces of orange-colored auriculas. As for
      Snobbs—any person who should look at me would be instantly aware
      that my name wasn’t Snobbs. Miss Tabitha Turnip propagated that
      report through sheer envy. Tabitha Turnip indeed! Oh the little wretch!
      But what can we expect from a turnip? Wonder if she remembers the old
      adage about “blood out of a turnip,” &amp;c.? [Mem. put her in
      mind of it the first opportunity.] [Mem. again—pull her nose.] Where
      was I? Ah! I have been assured that Snobbs is a mere corruption of
      Zenobia, and that Zenobia was a queen—(So am I. Dr. Moneypenny
      always calls me the Queen of the Hearts)—and that Zenobia, as well
      as Psyche, is good Greek, and that my father was “a Greek,”
      and that consequently I have a right to our patronymic, which is Zenobia
      and not by any means Snobbs. Nobody but Tabitha Turnip calls me Suky
      Snobbs. I am the Signora Psyche Zenobia.
    </p>
<p>
      As I said before, everybody has heard of me. I am that very Signora Psyche
      Zenobia, so justly celebrated as corresponding secretary to the “Philadelphia,
      Regular, Exchange, Tea, Total, Young, Belles, Lettres, Universal,
      Experimental, Bibliographical, Association, To, Civilize, Humanity.”
      Dr. Moneypenny made the title for us, and says he chose it because it
      sounded big like an empty rum-puncheon. (A vulgar man that sometimes—but
      he’s deep.) We all sign the initials of the society after our names,
      in the fashion of the R. S. A., Royal Society of Arts—the S. D. U.
      K., Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, &amp;c, &amp;c. Dr.
      Moneypenny says that S. stands for stale, and that D. U. K. spells duck,
      (but it don’t,) that S. D. U. K. stands for Stale Duck and not for
      Lord Brougham’s society—but then Dr. Moneypenny is such a
      queer man that I am never sure when he is telling me the truth. At any
      rate we always add to our names the initials P. R. E. T. T. Y. B. L. U. E.
      B. A. T. C. H.—that is to say, Philadelphia, Regular, Exchange, Tea,
      Total, Young, Belles, Lettres, Universal, Experimental, Bibliographical,
      Association, To, Civilize, Humanity—one letter for each word, which
      is a decided improvement upon Lord Brougham. Dr. Moneypenny will have it
      that our initials give our true character—but for my life I can’t
      see what he means.
    </p>
<p>
      Notwithstanding the good offices of the Doctor, and the strenuous
      exertions of the association to get itself into notice, it met with no
      very great success until I joined it. The truth is, the members indulged
      in too flippant a tone of discussion. The papers read every Saturday
      evening were characterized less by depth than buffoonery. They were all
      whipped syllabub. There was no investigation of first causes, first
      principles. There was no investigation of any thing at all. There was no
      attention paid to that great point, the “fitness of things.”
      In short there was no fine writing like this. It was all low—very!
      No profundity, no reading, no metaphysics—nothing which the learned
      call spirituality, and which the unlearned choose to stigmatize as cant.
      [Dr. M. says I ought to spell “cant” with a capital K—but
      I know better.]
    </p>
<p>
      When I joined the society it was my endeavor to introduce a better style
      of thinking and writing, and all the world knows how well I have
      succeeded. We get up as good papers now in the P. R. E. T. T. Y. B. L. U.
      E. B. A. T. C. H. as any to be found even in Blackwood. I say, Blackwood,
      because I have been assured that the finest writing, upon every subject,
      is to be discovered in the pages of that justly celebrated Magazine. We
      now take it for our model upon all themes, and are getting into rapid
      notice accordingly. And, after all, it’s not so very difficult a
      matter to compose an article of the genuine Blackwood stamp, if one only
      goes properly about it. Of course I don’t speak of the political
      articles. Everybody knows how they are managed, since Dr. Moneypenny
      explained it. Mr. Blackwood has a pair of tailor’s-shears, and three
      apprentices who stand by him for orders. One hands him the “Times,”
      another the “Examiner” and a third a “Culley’s New
      Compendium of Slang-Whang.” Mr. B. merely cuts out and intersperses.
      It is soon done—nothing but “Examiner,” “Slang-Whang,”
      and “Times”—then “Times,” “Slang-Whang,”
      and “Examiner”—and then “Times,” “Examiner,”
      and “Slang-Whang.”
    </p>
<p>
      But the chief merit of the Magazine lies in its miscellaneous articles;
      and the best of these come under the head of what Dr. Moneypenny calls the
      bizarreries (whatever that may mean) and what everybody else calls the
      intensities. This is a species of writing which I have long known how to
      appreciate, although it is only since my late visit to Mr. Blackwood
      (deputed by the society) that I have been made aware of the exact method
      of composition. This method is very simple, but not so much so as the
      politics. Upon my calling at Mr. B.‘s, and making known to him the
      wishes of the society, he received me with great civility, took me into
      his study, and gave me a clear explanation of the whole process.
    </p>
<p>
      “My dear madam,” said he, evidently struck with my majestic
      appearance, for I had on the crimson satin, with the green agraffas, and
      orange-colored auriclas. “My dear madam,” said he, “sit
      down. The matter stands thus: In the first place your writer of
      intensities must have very black ink, and a very big pen, with a very
      blunt nib. And, mark me, Miss Psyche Zenobia!” he continued, after a
      pause, with the most expressive energy and solemnity of manner, “mark
      me!—that pen—must—never be mended! Herein, madam, lies
      the secret, the soul, of intensity. I assume upon myself to say, that no
      individual, of however great genius ever wrote with a good pen—understand
      me,—a good article. You may take, it for granted, that when
      manuscript can be read it is never worth reading. This is a leading
      principle in our faith, to which if you cannot readily assent, our
      conference is at an end.”
    </p>
<p>
      He paused. But, of course, as I had no wish to put an end to the
      conference, I assented to a proposition so very obvious, and one, too, of
      whose truth I had all along been sufficiently aware. He seemed pleased,
      and went on with his instructions.
    </p>
<p>
      “It may appear invidious in me, Miss Psyche Zenobia, to refer you to
      any article, or set of articles, in the way of model or study, yet perhaps
      I may as well call your attention to a few cases. Let me see. There was
      ‘The Dead Alive,’ a capital thing!—the record of a
      gentleman’s sensations when entombed before the breath was out of
      his body—full of tastes, terror, sentiment, metaphysics, and
      erudition. You would have sworn that the writer had been born and brought
      up in a coffin. Then we had the ‘Confessions of an Opium-eater’—fine,
      very fine!—glorious imagination—deep philosophy acute
      speculation—plenty of fire and fury, and a good spicing of the
      decidedly unintelligible. That was a nice bit of flummery, and went down
      the throats of the people delightfully. They would have it that Coleridge
      wrote the paper—but not so. It was composed by my pet baboon,
      Juniper, over a rummer of Hollands and water, ‘hot, without sugar.’”
      [This I could scarcely have believed had it been anybody but Mr.
      Blackwood, who assured me of it.] “Then there was ‘The
      Involuntary Experimentalist,’ all about a gentleman who got baked in
      an oven, and came out alive and well, although certainly done to a turn.
      And then there was ‘The Diary of a Late Physician,’ where the
      merit lay in good rant, and indifferent Greek—both of them taking
      things with the public. And then there was ‘The Man in the Bell,’
      a paper by-the-by, Miss Zenobia, which I cannot sufficiently recommend to
      your attention. It is the history of a young person who goes to sleep
      under the clapper of a church bell, and is awakened by its tolling for a
      funeral. The sound drives him mad, and, accordingly, pulling out his
      tablets, he gives a record of his sensations. Sensations are the great
      things after all. Should you ever be drowned or hung, be sure and make a
      note of your sensations—they will be worth to you ten guineas a
      sheet. If you wish to write forcibly, Miss Zenobia, pay minute attention
      to the sensations.”
    </p>
<p>
      “That I certainly will, Mr. Blackwood,” said I.
    </p>
<p>
      “Good!” he replied. “I see you are a pupil after my own
      heart. But I must put you au fait to the details necessary in composing
      what may be denominated a genuine Blackwood article of the sensation stamp—the
      kind which you will understand me to say I consider the best for all
      purposes.
    </p>
<p>
      “The first thing requisite is to get yourself into such a scrape as
      no one ever got into before. The oven, for instance,—that was a good
      hit. But if you have no oven or big bell, at hand, and if you cannot
      conveniently tumble out of a balloon, or be swallowed up in an earthquake,
      or get stuck fast in a chimney, you will have to be contented with simply
      imagining some similar misadventure. I should prefer, however, that you
      have the actual fact to bear you out. Nothing so well assists the fancy,
      as an experimental knowledge of the matter in hand. ‘Truth is
      strange,’ you know, ‘stranger than fiction’—besides
      being more to the purpose.”
    </p>
<p>
      Here I assured him I had an excellent pair of garters, and would go and
      hang myself forthwith.
    </p>
<p>
      “Good!” he replied, “do so;—although hanging is
      somewhat hacknied. Perhaps you might do better. Take a dose of Brandreth’s
      pills, and then give us your sensations. However, my instructions will
      apply equally well to any variety of misadventure, and in your way home
      you may easily get knocked in the head, or run over by an omnibus, or
      bitten by a mad dog, or drowned in a gutter. But to proceed.
    </p>
<p>
      “Having determined upon your subject, you must next consider the
      tone, or manner, of your narration. There is the tone didactic, the tone
      enthusiastic, the tone natural—all common—place enough. But
      then there is the tone laconic, or curt, which has lately come much into
      use. It consists in short sentences. Somehow thus: Can’t be too
      brief. Can’t be too snappish. Always a full stop. And never a
      paragraph.
    </p>
<p>
      “Then there is the tone elevated, diffusive, and interjectional.
      Some of our best novelists patronize this tone. The words must be all in a
      whirl, like a humming-top, and make a noise very similar, which answers
      remarkably well instead of meaning. This is the best of all possible
      styles where the writer is in too great a hurry to think.
    </p>
<p>
      “The tone metaphysical is also a good one. If you know any big words
      this is your chance for them. Talk of the Ionic and Eleatic schools—of
      Archytas, Gorgias, and Alcmaeon. Say something about objectivity and
      subjectivity. Be sure and abuse a man named Locke. Turn up your nose at
      things in general, and when you let slip any thing a little too absurd,
      you need not be at the trouble of scratching it out, but just add a
      footnote and say that you are indebted for the above profound observation
      to the ‘Kritik der reinem Vernunft,’ or to the ‘Metaphysithe
      Anfongsgrunde der Noturwissenchaft.’ This would look erudite and—and—and
      frank.
    </p>
<p>
      “There are various other tones of equal celebrity, but I shall
      mention only two more—the tone transcendental and the tone
      heterogeneous. In the former the merit consists in seeing into the nature
      of affairs a very great deal farther than anybody else. This second sight
      is very efficient when properly managed. A little reading of the ‘Dial’
      will carry you a great way. Eschew, in this case, big words; get them as
      small as possible, and write them upside down. Look over Channing’s
      poems and quote what he says about a ‘fat little man with a delusive
      show of Can.’ Put in something about the Supernal Oneness. Don’t
      say a syllable about the Infernal Twoness. Above all, study innuendo. Hint
      everything—assert nothing. If you feel inclined to say ‘bread
      and butter,’ do not by any means say it outright. You may say any
      thing and every thing approaching to ‘bread and butter.’ You
      may hint at buck-wheat cake, or you may even go so far as to insinuate
      oat-meal porridge, but if bread and butter be your real meaning, be
      cautious, my dear Miss Psyche, not on any account to say ‘bread and
      butter!’”
    </p>
<p>
      I assured him that I should never say it again as long as I lived. He
      kissed me and continued:
    </p>
<p>
      “As for the tone heterogeneous, it is merely a judicious mixture, in
      equal proportions, of all the other tones in the world, and is
      consequently made up of every thing deep, great, odd, piquant, pertinent,
      and pretty.
    </p>
<p>
      “Let us suppose now you have determined upon your incidents and
      tone. The most important portion—in fact, the soul of the whole
      business, is yet to be attended to—I allude to the filling up. It is
      not to be supposed that a lady, or gentleman either, has been leading the
      life of a book worm. And yet above all things it is necessary that your
      article have an air of erudition, or at least afford evidence of extensive
      general reading. Now I’ll put you in the way of accomplishing this
      point. See here!” (pulling down some three or four ordinary-looking
      volumes, and opening them at random). “By casting your eye down
      almost any page of any book in the world, you will be able to perceive at
      once a host of little scraps of either learning or bel-espritism, which
      are the very thing for the spicing of a Blackwood article. You might as
      well note down a few while I read them to you. I shall make two divisions:
      first, Piquant Facts for the Manufacture of Similes, and, second, Piquant
      Expressions to be introduced as occasion may require. Write now!”—and
      I wrote as he dictated.
    </p>
<p>
      “PIQUANT FACTS FOR SIMILES. ‘There were originally but three
      Muses—Melete, Mneme, Aoede—meditation, memory, and singing.’
      You may make a good deal of that little fact if properly worked. You see
      it is not generally known, and looks recherche. You must be careful and
      give the thing with a downright improviso air.
    </p>
<p>
      “Again. ‘The river Alpheus passed beneath the sea, and emerged
      without injury to the purity of its waters.’ Rather stale that, to
      be sure, but, if properly dressed and dished up, will look quite as fresh
      as ever.
    </p>
<p>
      “Here is something better. ‘The Persian Iris appears to some
      persons to possess a sweet and very powerful perfume, while to others it
      is perfectly scentless.’ Fine that, and very delicate! Turn it about
      a little, and it will do wonders. We’ll have some thing else in the
      botanical line. There’s nothing goes down so well, especially with
      the help of a little Latin. Write!
    </p>
<p>
      “‘The Epidendrum Flos Aeris, of Java, bears a very beautiful
      flower, and will live when pulled up by the roots. The natives suspend it
      by a cord from the ceiling, and enjoy its fragrance for years.’ That’s
      capital! That will do for the similes. Now for the Piquant Expressions.
    </p>
<p>
      “PIQUANT EXPRESSIONS. ‘The Venerable Chinese novel Ju-Kiao-Li.’
      Good! By introducing these few words with dexterity you will evince your
      intimate acquaintance with the language and literature of the Chinese.
      With the aid of this you may either get along without either Arabic, or
      Sanscrit, or Chickasaw. There is no passing muster, however, without
      Spanish, Italian, German, Latin, and Greek. I must look you out a little
      specimen of each. Any scrap will answer, because you must depend upon your
      own ingenuity to make it fit into your article. Now write!
    </p>
<p>
      “‘Aussi tendre que Zaire’—as tender as
      Zaire-French. Alludes to the frequent repetition of the phrase, la tendre
      Zaire, in the French tragedy of that name. Properly introduced, will show
      not only your knowledge of the language, but your general reading and wit.
      You can say, for instance, that the chicken you were eating (write an
      article about being choked to death by a chicken-bone) was not altogether
      aussi tendre que Zaire. Write!
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     ‘Van muerte tan escondida,
        Que no te sienta venir,
     Porque el plazer del morir,
        No mestorne a dar la vida.’
</pre>
<p>
      “That’s Spanish—from Miguel de Cervantes. ‘Come
      quickly, O death! but be sure and don’t let me see you coming, lest
      the pleasure I shall feel at your appearance should unfortunately bring me
      back again to life.’ This you may slip in quite a propos when you
      are struggling in the last agonies with the chicken-bone. Write!
    </p>
<p>
<i>‘Il pover ‘huomo che non se’n era accorto, Andava
      combattendo, e era morto.‘</i>
</p>
<p>
      “That’s Italian, you perceive—from Ariosto. It means
      that a great hero, in the heat of combat, not perceiving that he had been
      fairly killed, continued to fight valiantly, dead as he was. The
      application of this to your own case is obvious—for I trust, Miss
      Psyche, that you will not neglect to kick for at least an hour and a half
      after you have been choked to death by that chicken-bone. Please to write!
    </p>
<p>
<i>‘Und sterb’ich doch, no sterb’ich denn</i>
</p>
<p>
<i>Durch sie—durch sie!’’</i>
</p>
<p>
      “That’s German—from Schiller. ‘And if I die, at
      least I die—for thee—for thee!’ Here it is clear that
      you are apostrophizing the cause of your disaster, the chicken. Indeed
      what gentleman (or lady either) of sense, wouldn’t die, I should
      like to know, for a well fattened capon of the right Molucca breed,
      stuffed with capers and mushrooms, and served up in a salad-bowl, with
      orange-jellies en mosaiques. Write! (You can get them that way at Tortoni’s)—Write,
      if you please!
    </p>
<p>
      “Here is a nice little Latin phrase, and rare too, (one can’t
      be too recherche or brief in one’s Latin, it’s getting so
      common—ignoratio elenchi. He has committed an ignoratio elenchi—that
      is to say, he has understood the words of your proposition, but not the
      idea. The man was a fool, you see. Some poor fellow whom you address while
      choking with that chicken-bone, and who therefore didn’t precisely
      understand what you were talking about. Throw the ignoratio elenchi in his
      teeth, and, at once, you have him annihilated. If he dares to reply, you
      can tell him from Lucan (here it is) that speeches are mere anemonae
      verborum, anemone words. The anemone, with great brilliancy, has no smell.
      Or, if he begins to bluster, you may be down upon him with insomnia Jovis,
      reveries of Jupiter—a phrase which Silius Italicus (see here!)
      applies to thoughts pompous and inflated. This will be sure and cut him to
      the heart. He can do nothing but roll over and die. Will you be kind
      enough to write?
    </p>
<p>
      “In Greek we must have some thing pretty—from Demosthenes, for
      example. [Greek phrase]
    </p>
<p>
      [Anerh o pheugoen kai palin makesetai] There is a tolerably good
      translation of it in Hudibras
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
        ‘For he that flies may fight again,
     Which he can never do that’s slain.’
</pre>
<p>
      “In a Blackwood article nothing makes so fine a show as your Greek.
      The very letters have an air of profundity about them. Only observe,
      madam, the astute look of that Epsilon! That Phi ought certainly to be a
      bishop! Was ever there a smarter fellow than that Omicron? Just twig that
      Tau! In short, there is nothing like Greek for a genuine sensation-paper.
      In the present case your application is the most obvious thing in the
      world. Rap out the sentence, with a huge oath, and by way of ultimatum at
      the good-for-nothing dunder-headed villain who couldn’t understand
      your plain English in relation to the chicken-bone. He’ll take the
      hint and be off, you may depend upon it.”
    </p>
<p>
      These were all the instructions Mr. B. could afford me upon the topic in
      question, but I felt they would be entirely sufficient. I was, at length,
      able to write a genuine Blackwood article, and determined to do it
      forthwith. In taking leave of me, Mr. B. made a proposition for the
      purchase of the paper when written; but as he could offer me only fifty
      guineas a sheet, I thought it better to let our society have it, than
      sacrifice it for so paltry a sum. Notwithstanding this niggardly spirit,
      however, the gentleman showed his consideration for me in all other
      respects, and indeed treated me with the greatest civility. His parting
      words made a deep impression upon my heart, and I hope I shall always
      remember them with gratitude.
    </p>
<p>
      “My dear Miss Zenobia,” he said, while the tears stood in his
      eyes, “is there anything else I can do to promote the success of
      your laudable undertaking? Let me reflect! It is just possible that you
      may not be able, so soon as convenient, to—to—get yourself
      drowned, or—choked with a chicken-bone, or—or hung,—or—bitten
      by a—but stay! Now I think me of it, there are a couple of very
      excellent bull-dogs in the yard—fine fellows, I assure you—savage,
      and all that—indeed just the thing for your money—they’ll
      have you eaten up, auricula and all, in less than five minutes (here’s
      my watch!)—and then only think of the sensations! Here! I say—Tom!—Peter!—Dick,
      you villain!—let out those”—but as I was really in a
      great hurry, and had not another moment to spare, I was reluctantly forced
      to expedite my departure, and accordingly took leave at once—somewhat
      more abruptly, I admit, than strict courtesy would have otherwise allowed.
    </p>
<p>
      It was my primary object upon quitting Mr. Blackwood, to get into some
      immediate difficulty, pursuant to his advice, and with this view I spent
      the greater part of the day in wandering about Edinburgh, seeking for
      desperate adventures—adventures adequate to the intensity of my
      feelings, and adapted to the vast character of the article I intended to
      write. In this excursion I was attended by one negro—servant,
      Pompey, and my little lap-dog Diana, whom I had brought with me from
      Philadelphia. It was not, however, until late in the afternoon that I
      fully succeeded in my arduous undertaking. An important event then
      happened of which the following Blackwood article, in the tone
      heterogeneous, is the substance and result.
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2150link2H_4_0007">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      A PREDICAMENT
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     What chance, good lady, hath bereft you thus?

                 —COMUS.
</pre>
<p>
      IT was a quiet and still afternoon when I strolled forth in the goodly
      city of Edina. The confusion and bustle in the streets were terrible. Men
      were talking. Women were screaming. Children were choking. Pigs were
      whistling. Carts they rattled. Bulls they bellowed. Cows they lowed.
      Horses they neighed. Cats they caterwauled. Dogs they danced. Danced!
      Could it then be possible? Danced! Alas, thought I, my dancing days are
      over! Thus it is ever. What a host of gloomy recollections will ever and
      anon be awakened in the mind of genius and imaginative contemplation,
      especially of a genius doomed to the everlasting and eternal, and
      continual, and, as one might say, the—continued—yes, the
      continued and continuous, bitter, harassing, disturbing, and, if I may be
      allowed the expression, the very disturbing influence of the serene, and
      godlike, and heavenly, and exalted, and elevated, and purifying effect of
      what may be rightly termed the most enviable, the most truly enviable—nay!
      the most benignly beautiful, the most deliciously ethereal, and, as it
      were, the most pretty (if I may use so bold an expression) thing (pardon
      me, gentle reader!) in the world—but I am always led away by my
      feelings. In such a mind, I repeat, what a host of recollections are
      stirred up by a trifle! The dogs danced! I—I could not! They frisked—I
      wept. They capered—I sobbed aloud. Touching circumstances! which
      cannot fail to bring to the recollection of the classical reader that
      exquisite passage in relation to the fitness of things, which is to be
      found in the commencement of the third volume of that admirable and
      venerable Chinese novel the Jo-Go-Slow.
    </p>
<p>
      In my solitary walk through, the city I had two humble but faithful
      companions. Diana, my poodle! sweetest of creatures! She had a quantity of
      hair over her one eye, and a blue ribband tied fashionably around her
      neck. Diana was not more than five inches in height, but her head was
      somewhat bigger than her body, and her tail being cut off exceedingly
      close, gave an air of injured innocence to the interesting animal which
      rendered her a favorite with all.
    </p>
<p>
      And Pompey, my negro!—sweet Pompey! how shall I ever forget thee? I
      had taken Pompey’s arm. He was three feet in height (I like to be
      particular) and about seventy, or perhaps eighty, years of age. He had
      bow-legs and was corpulent. His mouth should not be called small, nor his
      ears short. His teeth, however, were like pearl, and his large full eyes
      were deliciously white. Nature had endowed him with no neck, and had
      placed his ankles (as usual with that race) in the middle of the upper
      portion of the feet. He was clad with a striking simplicity. His sole
      garments were a stock of nine inches in height, and a nearly—new
      drab overcoat which had formerly been in the service of the tall, stately,
      and illustrious Dr. Moneypenny. It was a good overcoat. It was well cut.
      It was well made. The coat was nearly new. Pompey held it up out of the
      dirt with both hands.
    </p>
<p>
      There were three persons in our party, and two of them have already been
      the subject of remark. There was a third—that person was myself. I
      am the Signora Psyche Zenobia. I am not Suky Snobbs. My appearance is
      commanding. On the memorable occasion of which I speak I was habited in a
      crimson satin dress, with a sky-blue Arabian mantelet. And the dress had
      trimmings of green agraffas, and seven graceful flounces of the
      orange-colored auricula. I thus formed the third of the party. There was
      the poodle. There was Pompey. There was myself. We were three. Thus it is
      said there were originally but three Furies—Melty, Nimmy, and Hetty—Meditation,
      Memory, and Fiddling.
    </p>
<p>
      Leaning upon the arm of the gallant Pompey, and attended at a respectable
      distance by Diana, I proceeded down one of the populous and very pleasant
      streets of the now deserted Edina. On a sudden, there presented itself to
      view a church—a Gothic cathedral—vast, venerable, and with a
      tall steeple, which towered into the sky. What madness now possessed me?
      Why did I rush upon my fate? I was seized with an uncontrollable desire to
      ascend the giddy pinnacle, and then survey the immense extent of the city.
      The door of the cathedral stood invitingly open. My destiny prevailed. I
      entered the ominous archway. Where then was my guardian angel?—if
      indeed such angels there be. If! Distressing monosyllable! what world of
      mystery, and meaning, and doubt, and uncertainty is there involved in thy
      two letters! I entered the ominous archway! I entered; and, without injury
      to my orange-colored auriculas, I passed beneath the portal, and emerged
      within the vestibule. Thus it is said the immense river Alfred passed,
      unscathed, and unwetted, beneath the sea.
    </p>
<p>
      I thought the staircase would never have an end. Round! Yes, they went
      round and up, and round and up and round and up, until I could not help
      surmising, with the sagacious Pompey, upon whose supporting arm I leaned
      in all the confidence of early affection—I could not help surmising
      that the upper end of the continuous spiral ladder had been accidentally,
      or perhaps designedly, removed. I paused for breath; and, in the meantime,
      an accident occurred of too momentous a nature in a moral, and also in a
      metaphysical point of view, to be passed over without notice. It appeared
      to me—indeed I was quite confident of the fact—I could not be
      mistaken—no! I had, for some moments, carefully and anxiously
      observed the motions of my Diana—I say that I could not be mistaken—Diana
      smelt a rat! At once I called Pompey’s attention to the subject, and
      he—he agreed with me. There was then no longer any reasonable room
      for doubt. The rat had been smelled—and by Diana. Heavens! shall I
      ever forget the intense excitement of the moment? Alas! what is the
      boasted intellect of man? The rat!—it was there—that is to
      say, it was somewhere. Diana smelled the rat. I—I could not! Thus it
      is said the Prussian Isis has, for some persons, a sweet and very powerful
      perfume, while to others it is perfectly scentless.
    </p>
<p>
      The staircase had been surmounted, and there were now only three or four
      more upward steps intervening between us and the summit. We still
      ascended, and now only one step remained. One step! One little, little
      step! Upon one such little step in the great staircase of human life how
      vast a sum of human happiness or misery depends! I thought of myself, then
      of Pompey, and then of the mysterious and inexplicable destiny which
      surrounded us. I thought of Pompey!—alas, I thought of love! I
      thought of my many false steps which have been taken, and may be taken
      again. I resolved to be more cautious, more reserved. I abandoned the arm
      of Pompey, and, without his assistance, surmounted the one remaining step,
      and gained the chamber of the belfry. I was followed immediately afterward
      by my poodle. Pompey alone remained behind. I stood at the head of the
      staircase, and encouraged him to ascend. He stretched forth to me his
      hand, and unfortunately in so doing was forced to abandon his firm hold
      upon the overcoat. Will the gods never cease their persecution? The
      overcoat is dropped, and, with one of his feet, Pompey stepped upon the
      long and trailing skirt of the overcoat. He stumbled and fell—this
      consequence was inevitable. He fell forward, and, with his accursed head,
      striking me full in the—in the breast, precipitated me headlong,
      together with himself, upon the hard, filthy, and detestable floor of the
      belfry. But my revenge was sure, sudden, and complete. Seizing him
      furiously by the wool with both hands, I tore out a vast quantity of
      black, and crisp, and curling material, and tossed it from me with every
      manifestation of disdain. It fell among the ropes of the belfry and
      remained. Pompey arose, and said no word. But he regarded me piteously
      with his large eyes and—sighed. Ye Gods—that sigh! It sunk
      into my heart. And the hair—the wool! Could I have reached that wool
      I would have bathed it with my tears, in testimony of regret. But alas! it
      was now far beyond my grasp. As it dangled among the cordage of the bell,
      I fancied it alive. I fancied that it stood on end with indignation. Thus
      the happy-dandy Flos Aeris of Java bears, it is said, a beautiful flower,
      which will live when pulled up by the roots. The natives suspend it by a
      cord from the ceiling and enjoy its fragrance for years.
    </p>
<p>
      Our quarrel was now made up, and we looked about the room for an aperture
      through which to survey the city of Edina. Windows there were none. The
      sole light admitted into the gloomy chamber proceeded from a square
      opening, about a foot in diameter, at a height of about seven feet from
      the floor. Yet what will the energy of true genius not effect? I resolved
      to clamber up to this hole. A vast quantity of wheels, pinions, and other
      cabalistic—looking machinery stood opposite the hole, close to it;
      and through the hole there passed an iron rod from the machinery. Between
      the wheels and the wall where the hole lay there was barely room for my
      body—yet I was desperate, and determined to persevere. I called
      Pompey to my side.
    </p>
<p>
      “You perceive that aperture, Pompey. I wish to look through it. You
      will stand here just beneath the hole—so. Now, hold out one of your
      hands, Pompey, and let me step upon it—thus. Now, the other hand,
      Pompey, and with its aid I will get upon your shoulders.”
    </p>
<p>
      He did every thing I wished, and I found, upon getting up, that I could
      easily pass my head and neck through the aperture. The prospect was
      sublime. Nothing could be more magnificent. I merely paused a moment to
      bid Diana behave herself, and assure Pompey that I would be considerate
      and bear as lightly as possible upon his shoulders. I told him I would be
      tender of his feelings—ossi tender que beefsteak. Having done this
      justice to my faithful friend, I gave myself up with great zest and
      enthusiasm to the enjoyment of the scene which so obligingly spread itself
      out before my eyes.
    </p>
<p>
      Upon this subject, however, I shall forbear to dilate. I will not describe
      the city of Edinburgh. Every one has been to the city of Edinburgh. Every
      one has been to Edinburgh—the classic Edina. I will confine myself
      to the momentous details of my own lamentable adventure. Having, in some
      measure, satisfied my curiosity in regard to the extent, situation, and
      general appearance of the city, I had leisure to survey the church in
      which I was, and the delicate architecture of the steeple. I observed that
      the aperture through which I had thrust my head was an opening in the
      dial-plate of a gigantic clock, and must have appeared, from the street,
      as a large key-hole, such as we see in the face of the French watches. No
      doubt the true object was to admit the arm of an attendant, to adjust,
      when necessary, the hands of the clock from within. I observed also, with
      surprise, the immense size of these hands, the longest of which could not
      have been less than ten feet in length, and, where broadest, eight or nine
      inches in breadth. They were of solid steel apparently, and their edges
      appeared to be sharp. Having noticed these particulars, and some others, I
      again turned my eyes upon the glorious prospect below, and soon became
      absorbed in contemplation.
    </p>
<p>
      From this, after some minutes, I was aroused by the voice of Pompey, who
      declared that he could stand it no longer, and requested that I would be
      so kind as to come down. This was unreasonable, and I told him so in a
      speech of some length. He replied, but with an evident misunderstanding of
      my ideas upon the subject. I accordingly grew angry, and told him in plain
      words, that he was a fool, that he had committed an ignoramus
      e-clench-eye, that his notions were mere insommary Bovis, and his words
      little better than an ennemywerrybor’em. With this he appeared
      satisfied, and I resumed my contemplations.
    </p>
<p>
      It might have been half an hour after this altercation when, as I was
      deeply absorbed in the heavenly scenery beneath me, I was startled by
      something very cold which pressed with a gentle pressure on the back of my
      neck. It is needless to say that I felt inexpressibly alarmed. I knew that
      Pompey was beneath my feet, and that Diana was sitting, according to my
      explicit directions, upon her hind legs, in the farthest corner of the
      room. What could it be? Alas! I but too soon discovered. Turning my head
      gently to one side, I perceived, to my extreme horror, that the huge,
      glittering, scimetar-like minute-hand of the clock had, in the course of
      its hourly revolution, descended upon my neck. There was, I knew, not a
      second to be lost. I pulled back at once—but it was too late. There
      was no chance of forcing my head through the mouth of that terrible trap
      in which it was so fairly caught, and which grew narrower and narrower
      with a rapidity too horrible to be conceived. The agony of that moment is
      not to be imagined. I threw up my hands and endeavored, with all my
      strength, to force upward the ponderous iron bar. I might as well have
      tried to lift the cathedral itself. Down, down, down it came, closer and
      yet closer. I screamed to Pompey for aid; but he said that I had hurt his
      feelings by calling him ‘an ignorant old squint-eye:’ I yelled
      to Diana; but she only said ‘bow-wow-wow,’ and that I had told
      her ‘on no account to stir from the corner.’ Thus I had no
      relief to expect from my associates.
    </p>
<p>
      Meantime the ponderous and terrific Scythe of Time (for I now discovered
      the literal import of that classical phrase) had not stopped, nor was it
      likely to stop, in its career. Down and still down, it came. It had
      already buried its sharp edge a full inch in my flesh, and my sensations
      grew indistinct and confused. At one time I fancied myself in Philadelphia
      with the stately Dr. Moneypenny, at another in the back parlor of Mr.
      Blackwood receiving his invaluable instructions. And then again the sweet
      recollection of better and earlier times came over me, and I thought of
      that happy period when the world was not all a desert, and Pompey not
      altogether cruel.
    </p>
<p>
      The ticking of the machinery amused me. Amused me, I say, for my
      sensations now bordered upon perfect happiness, and the most trifling
      circumstances afforded me pleasure. The eternal click-clak, click-clak,
      click-clak of the clock was the most melodious of music in my ears, and
      occasionally even put me in mind of the graceful sermonic harangues of Dr.
      Ollapod. Then there were the great figures upon the dial-plate—how
      intelligent how intellectual, they all looked! And presently they took to
      dancing the Mazurka, and I think it was the figure V. who performed the
      most to my satisfaction. She was evidently a lady of breeding. None of
      your swaggerers, and nothing at all indelicate in her motions. She did the
      pirouette to admiration—whirling round upon her apex. I made an
      endeavor to hand her a chair, for I saw that she appeared fatigued with
      her exertions—and it was not until then that I fully perceived my
      lamentable situation. Lamentable indeed! The bar had buried itself two
      inches in my neck. I was aroused to a sense of exquisite pain. I prayed
      for death, and, in the agony of the moment, could not help repeating those
      exquisite verses of the poet Miguel De Cervantes:
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     Vanny Buren, tan escondida

     Query no te senty venny

     Pork and pleasure, delly morry

     Nommy, torny, darry, widdy!
</pre>
<p>
      But now a new horror presented itself, and one indeed sufficient to
      startle the strongest nerves. My eyes, from the cruel pressure of the
      machine, were absolutely starting from their sockets. While I was thinking
      how I should possibly manage without them, one actually tumbled out of my
      head, and, rolling down the steep side of the steeple, lodged in the rain
      gutter which ran along the eaves of the main building. The loss of the eye
      was not so much as the insolent air of independence and contempt with
      which it regarded me after it was out. There it lay in the gutter just
      under my nose, and the airs it gave itself would have been ridiculous had
      they not been disgusting. Such a winking and b2150linking were never
      before seen. This behavior on the part of my eye in the gutter was not
      only irritating on account of its manifest insolence and shameful
      ingratitude, but was also exceedingly inconvenient on account of the
      sympathy which always exists between two eyes of the same head, however
      far apart. I was forced, in a manner, to wink and to b2150link, whether I
      would or not, in exact concert with the scoundrelly thing that lay just
      under my nose. I was presently relieved, however, by the dropping out of
      the other eye. In falling it took the same direction (possibly a concerted
      plot) as its fellow. Both rolled out of the gutter together, and in truth
      I was very glad to get rid of them.
    </p>
<p>
      The bar was now four inches and a half deep in my neck, and there was only
      a little bit of skin to cut through. My sensations were those of entire
      happiness, for I felt that in a few minutes, at farthest, I should be
      relieved from my disagreeable situation. And in this expectation I was not
      at all deceived. At twenty-five minutes past five in the afternoon,
      precisely, the huge minute-hand had proceeded sufficiently far on its
      terrible revolution to sever the small remainder of my neck. I was not
      sorry to see the head which had occasioned me so much embarrassment at
      length make a final separation from my body. It first rolled down the side
      of the steeple, then lodge, for a few seconds, in the gutter, and then
      made its way, with a plunge, into the middle of the street.
    </p>
<p>
      I will candidly confess that my feelings were now of the most singular—nay,
      of the most mysterious, the most perplexing and incomprehensible
      character. My senses were here and there at one and the same moment. With
      my head I imagined, at one time, that I, the head, was the real Signora
      Psyche Zenobia—at another I felt convinced that myself, the body,
      was the proper identity. To clear my ideas on this topic I felt in my
      pocket for my snuff-box, but, upon getting it, and endeavoring to apply a
      pinch of its grateful contents in the ordinary manner, I became
      immediately aware of my peculiar deficiency, and threw the box at once
      down to my head. It took a pinch with great satisfaction, and smiled me an
      acknowledgement in return. Shortly afterward it made me a speech, which I
      could hear but indistinctly without ears. I gathered enough, however, to
      know that it was astonished at my wishing to remain alive under such
      circumstances. In the concluding sentences it quoted the noble words of
      Ariosto—
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     Il pover hommy che non sera corty
</pre>
<p>
      And have a combat tenty erry morty; thus comparing me to the hero who, in
      the heat of the combat, not perceiving that he was dead, continued to
      contest the battle with inextinguishable valor. There was nothing now to
      prevent my getting down from my elevation, and I did so. What it was that
      Pompey saw so very peculiar in my appearance I have never yet been able to
      find out. The fellow opened his mouth from ear to ear, and shut his two
      eyes as if he were endeavoring to crack nuts between the lids. Finally,
      throwing off his overcoat, he made one spring for the staircase and
      disappeared. I hurled after the scoundrel these vehement words of
      Demosthenes—
    </p>
<p>
      Andrew O’Phlegethon, you really make haste to fly, and then turned
      to the darling of my heart, to the one-eyed! the shaggy-haired Diana.
      Alas! what a horrible vision affronted my eyes? Was that a rat I saw
      skulking into his hole? Are these the picked bones of the little angel who
      has been cruelly devoured by the monster? Ye gods! and what do I behold—is
      that the departed spirit, the shade, the ghost, of my beloved puppy, which
      I perceive sitting with a grace so melancholy, in the corner? Hearken! for
      she speaks, and, heavens! it is in the German of Schiller—
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
      “Unt stubby duk, so stubby dun
       Duk she! duk she!”

      Alas! and are not her words too true?

      “And if I died, at least I died
       For thee—for thee.”
 </pre>
<p>
      Sweet creature! she too has sacrificed herself in my behalf. Dogless,
      niggerless, headless, what now remains for the unhappy Signora Psyche
      Zenobia? Alas—nothing! I have done.
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2150link2H_4_0008">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      MYSTIFICATION
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     Slid, if these be your “passados” and “montantes,” I’ll have
     none o’ them.

     —NED KNOWLES.
</pre>
<p>
      THE BARON RITZNER VON JUNG was a noble Hungarian family, every member of
      which (at least as far back into antiquity as any certain records extend)
      was more or less remarkable for talent of some description—the
      majority for that species of grotesquerie in conception of which Tieck, a
      scion of the house, has given a vivid, although by no means the most vivid
      exemplifications. My acquaintance with Ritzner commenced at the
      magnificent Ch?teau Jung, into which a train of droll adventures, not to
      be made public, threw a place in his regard, and here, with somewhat more
      difficulty, a partial insight into his mental conformation. In later days
      this insight grew more clear, as the intimacy which had at first permitted
      it became more close; and when, after three years of the character of the
      Baron Ritzner von Jung.
    </p>
<p>
      I remember the buzz of curiosity which his advent excited within the
      college precincts on the night of the twenty-fifth of June. I remember
      still more distinctly, that while he was pronounced by all parties at
      first sight “the most remarkable man in the world,” no person
      made any attempt at accounting for his opinion. That he was unique
      appeared so undeniable, that it was deemed impertinent to inquire wherein
      the uniquity consisted. But, letting this matter pass for the present, I
      will merely observe that, from the first moment of his setting foot within
      the limits of the university, he began to exercise over the habits,
      manners, persons, purses, and propensities of the whole community which
      surrounded him, an influence the most extensive and despotic, yet at the
      same time the most indefinite and altogether unaccountable. Thus the brief
      period of his residence at the university forms an era in its annals, and
      is characterized by all classes of people appertaining to it or its
      dependencies as “that very extraordinary epoch forming the
      domination of the Baron Ritzner von Jung.” then of no particular
      age, by which I mean that it was impossible to form a guess respecting his
      age by any data personally afforded. He might have been fifteen or fifty,
      and was twenty-one years and seven months. He was by no means a handsome
      man—perhaps the reverse. The contour of his face was somewhat
      angular and harsh. His forehead was lofty and very fair; his nose a snub;
      his eyes large, heavy, glassy, and meaningless. About the mouth there was
      more to be observed. The lips were gently protruded, and rested the one
      upon the other, after such a fashion that it is impossible to conceive
      any, even the most complex, combination of human features, conveying so
      entirely, and so singly, the idea of unmitigated gravity, solemnity and
      repose.
    </p>
<p>
      It will be perceived, no doubt, from what I have already said, that the
      Baron was one of those human anomalies now and then to be found, who make
      the science of mystification the study and the business of their lives.
      For this science a peculiar turn of mind gave him instinctively the cue,
      while his physical appearance afforded him unusual facilities for carrying
      his prospects into effect. I quaintly termed the domination of the Baron
      Ritzner von Jung, ever rightly entered into the mystery which overshadowed
      his character. I truly think that no person at the university, with the
      exception of myself, ever suspected him to be capable of a joke, verbal or
      practical:—the old bull-dog at the garden-gate would sooner have
      been accused,—the ghost of Heraclitus,—or the wig of the
      Emeritus Professor of Theology. This, too, when it was evident that the
      most egregious and unpardonable of all conceivable tricks, whimsicalities
      and buffooneries were brought about, if not directly by him, at least
      plainly through his intermediate agency or connivance. The beauty, if I
      may so call it, of his art mystifique, lay in that consummate ability
      (resulting from an almost intuitive knowledge of human nature, and a most
      wonderful self-possession,) by means of which he never failed to make it
      appear that the drolleries he was occupied in bringing to a point, arose
      partly in spite, and partly in consequence of the laudable efforts he was
      making for their prevention, and for the preservation of the good order
      and dignity of Alma Mater. The deep, the poignant, the overwhelming
      mortification, which upon each such failure of his praise worthy
      endeavors, would suffuse every lineament of his countenance, left not the
      slightest room for doubt of his sincerity in the bosoms of even his most
      skeptical companions. The adroitness, too, was no less worthy of
      observation by which he contrived to shift the sense of the grotesque from
      the creator to the created—from his own person to the absurdities to
      which he had given rise. In no instance before that of which I speak, have
      I known the habitual mystific escape the natural consequence of his
      manoevres—an attachment of the ludicrous to his own character and
      person. Continually enveloped in an atmosphere of whim, my friend appeared
      to live only for the severities of society; and not even his own household
      have for a moment associated other ideas than those of the rigid and
      august with the memory of the Baron Ritzner von Jung, the demon of the
      dolce far niente lay like an incubus upon the university. Nothing, at
      least, was done beyond eating and drinking and making merry. The
      apartments of the students were converted into so many pot-houses, and
      there was no pot-house of them all more famous or more frequented than
      that of the Baron. Our carousals here were many, and boisterous, and long,
      and never unfruitful of events.
    </p>
<p>
      Upon one occasion we had protracted our sitting until nearly daybreak, and
      an unusual quantity of wine had been drunk. The company consisted of seven
      or eight individuals besides the Baron and myself. Most of these were
      young men of wealth, of high connection, of great family pride, and all
      alive with an exaggerated sense of honor. They abounded in the most ultra
      German opinions respecting the duello. To these Quixotic notions some
      recent Parisian publications, backed by three or four desperate and fatal
      conversation, during the greater part of the night, had run wild upon the
      all—engrossing topic of the times. The Baron, who had been unusually
      silent and abstracted in the earlier portion of the evening, at length
      seemed to be aroused from his apathy, took a leading part in the
      discourse, and dwelt upon the benefits, and more especially upon the
      beauties, of the received code of etiquette in passages of arms with an
      ardor, an eloquence, an impressiveness, and an affectionateness of manner,
      which elicited the warmest enthusiasm from his hearers in general, and
      absolutely staggered even myself, who well knew him to be at heart a
      ridiculer of those very points for which he contended, and especially to
      hold the entire fanfaronade of duelling etiquette in the sovereign
      contempt which it deserves.
    </p>
<p>
      Looking around me during a pause in the Baron’s discourse (of which
      my readers may gather some faint idea when I say that it bore resemblance
      to the fervid, chanting, monotonous, yet musical sermonic manner of
      Coleridge), I perceived symptoms of even more than the general interest in
      the countenance of one of the party. This gentleman, whom I shall call
      Hermann, was an original in every respect—except, perhaps, in the
      single particular that he was a very great fool. He contrived to bear,
      however, among a particular set at the university, a reputation for deep
      metaphysical thinking, and, I believe, for some logical talent. As a
      duellist he had acquired who had fallen at his hands; but they were many.
      He was a man of courage undoubtedly. But it was upon his minute
      acquaintance with the etiquette of the duello, and the nicety of his sense
      of honor, that he most especially prided himself. These things were a
      hobby which he rode to the death. To Ritzner, ever upon the lookout for
      the grotesque, his peculiarities had for a long time past afforded food
      for mystification. Of this, however, I was not aware; although, in the
      present instance, I saw clearly that something of a whimsical nature was
      upon the tapis with my friend, and that Hermann was its especial object.
    </p>
<p>
      As the former proceeded in his discourse, or rather monologue I perceived
      the excitement of the latter momently increasing. At length he spoke;
      offering some objection to a point insisted upon by R., and giving his
      reasons in detail. To these the Baron replied at length (still maintaining
      his exaggerated tone of sentiment) and concluding, in what I thought very
      bad taste, with a sarcasm and a sneer. The hobby of Hermann now took the
      bit in his teeth. This I could discern by the studied hair-splitting
      farrago of his rejoinder. His last words I distinctly remember. “Your
      opinions, allow me to say, Baron von Jung, although in the main correct,
      are, in many nice points, discreditable to yourself and to the university
      of which you are a member. In a few respects they are even unworthy of
      serious refutation. I would say more than this, sir, were it not for the
      fear of giving you offence (here the speaker smiled blandly), I would say,
      sir, that your opinions are not the opinions to be expected from a
      gentleman.”
    </p>
<p>
      As Hermann completed this equivocal sentence, all eyes were turned upon
      the Baron. He became pale, then excessively red; then, dropping his
      pocket-handkerchief, stooped to recover it, when I caught a glimpse of his
      countenance, while it could be seen by no one else at the table. It was
      radiant with the quizzical expression which was its natural character, but
      which I had never seen it assume except when we were alone together, and
      when he unbent himself freely. In an instant afterward he stood erect,
      confronting Hermann; and so total an alteration of countenance in so short
      a period I certainly never saw before. For a moment I even fancied that I
      had misconceived him, and that he was in sober earnest. He appeared to be
      stifling with passion, and his face was cadaverously white. For a short
      time he remained silent, apparently striving to master his emotion. Having
      at length seemingly succeeded, he reached a decanter which stood near him,
      saying as he held it firmly clenched “The language you have thought
      proper to employ, Mynheer Hermann, in addressing yourself to me, is
      objectionable in so many particulars, that I have neither temper nor time
      for specification. That my opinions, however, are not the opinions to be
      expected from a gentleman, is an observation so directly offensive as to
      allow me but one line of conduct. Some courtesy, nevertheless, is due to
      the presence of this company, and to yourself, at this moment, as my
      guest. You will pardon me, therefore, if, upon this consideration, I
      deviate slightly from the general usage among gentlemen in similar cases
      of personal affront. You will forgive me for the moderate tax I shall make
      upon your imagination, and endeavor to consider, for an instant, the
      reflection of your person in yonder mirror as the living Mynheer Hermann
      himself. This being done, there will be no difficulty whatever. I shall
      discharge this decanter of wine at your image in yonder mirror, and thus
      fulfil all the spirit, if not the exact letter, of resentment for your
      insult, while the necessity of physical violence to your real person will
      be obviated.”
    </p>
<p>
      With these words he hurled the decanter, full of wine, against the mirror
      which hung directly opposite Hermann; striking the reflection of his
      person with great precision, and of course shattering the glass into
      fragments. The whole company at once started to their feet, and, with the
      exception of myself and Ritzner, took their departure. As Hermann went
      out, the Baron whispered me that I should follow him and make an offer of
      my services. To this I agreed; not knowing precisely what to make of so
      ridiculous a piece of business.
    </p>
<p>
      The duellist accepted my aid with his stiff and ultra recherche air, and,
      taking my arm, led me to his apartment. I could hardly forbear laughing in
      his face while he proceeded to discuss, with the profoundest gravity, what
      he termed “the refinedly peculiar character” of the insult he
      had received. After a tiresome harangue in his ordinary style, he took
      down from his book shelves a number of musty volumes on the subject of the
      duello, and entertained me for a long time with their contents; reading
      aloud, and commenting earnestly as he read. I can just remember the titles
      of some of the works. There were the “Ordonnance of Philip le Bel on
      Single Combat”; the “Theatre of Honor,” by Favyn, and a
      treatise “On the Permission of Duels,” by Andiguier. He
      displayed, also, with much pomposity, Brantome’s “Memoirs of
      Duels,”—published at Cologne, 1666, in the types of Elzevir—a
      precious and unique vellum-paper volume, with a fine margin, and bound by
      Derome. But he requested my attention particularly, and with an air of
      mysterious sagacity, to a thick octavo, written in barbarous Latin by one
      Hedelin, a Frenchman, and having the quaint title, “Duelli Lex
      Scripta, et non; aliterque.” From this he read me one of the
      drollest chapters in the world concerning “Injuriae per
      applicationem, per constructionem, et per se,” about half of which,
      he averred, was strictly applicable to his own “refinedly peculiar”
      case, although not one syllable of the whole matter could I understand for
      the life of me. Having finished the chapter, he closed the book, and
      demanded what I thought necessary to be done. I replied that I had entire
      confidence in his superior delicacy of feeling, and would abide by what he
      proposed. With this answer he seemed flattered, and sat down to write a
      note to the Baron. It ran thus:
    </p>
<p>
      Sir,—My friend, M. P.-, will hand you this note. I find it incumbent
      upon me to request, at your earliest convenience, an explanation of this
      evening’s occurrences at your chambers. In the event of your
      declining this request, Mr. P. will be happy to arrange, with any friend
      whom you may appoint, the steps preliminary to a meeting.
    </p>
<p>
      With sentiments of perfect respect,
    </p>
<p>
      Your most humble servant,
    </p>
<p>
      JOHANN HERMAN.
    </p>
<p>
      To the Baron Ritzner von Jung,
    </p>
<p>
      Not knowing what better to do, I called upon Ritzner with this epistle. He
      bowed as I presented it; then, with a grave countenance, motioned me to a
      seat. Having perused the cartel, he wrote the following reply, which I
      carried to Hermann.
    </p>
<p>
      SIR,—Through our common friend, Mr. P., I have received your note of
      this evening. Upon due reflection I frankly admit the propriety of the
      explanation you suggest. This being admitted, I still find great
      difficulty, (owing to the refinedly peculiar nature of our disagreement,
      and of the personal affront offered on my part,) in so wording what I have
      to say by way of apology, as to meet all the minute exigencies, and all
      the variable shadows, of the case. I have great reliance, however, on that
      extreme delicacy of discrimination, in matters appertaining to the rules
      of etiquette, for which you have been so long and so pre-eminently
      distinguished. With perfect certainty, therefore, of being comprehended, I
      beg leave, in lieu of offering any sentiments of my own, to refer you to
      the opinions of Sieur Hedelin, as set forth in the ninth paragraph of the
      chapter of “Injuriae per applicationem, per constructionem, et per
      se,” in his “Duelli Lex scripta, et non; aliterque.” The
      nicety of your discernment in all the matters here treated, will be
      sufficient, I am assured, to convince you that the mere circumstance of me
      referring you to this admirable passage, ought to satisfy your request, as
      a man of honor, for explanation.
    </p>
<p>
      With sentiments of profound respect,
    </p>
<p>
      Your most obedient servant,
    </p>
<p>
      VON JUNG.
    </p>
<p>
      The Herr Johann Hermann
    </p>
<p>
      Hermann commenced the perusal of this epistle with a scowl, which,
      however, was converted into a smile of the most ludicrous self-complacency
      as he came to the rigmarole about Injuriae per applicationem, per
      constructionem, et per se. Having finished reading, he begged me, with the
      blandest of all possible smiles, to be seated, while he made reference to
      the treatise in question. Turning to the passage specified, he read it
      with great care to himself, then closed the book, and desired me, in my
      character of confidential acquaintance, to express to the Baron von Jung
      his exalted sense of his chivalrous behavior, and, in that of second, to
      assure him that the explanation offered was of the fullest, the most
      honorable, and the most unequivocally satisfactory nature.
    </p>
<p>
      Somewhat amazed at all this, I made my r?treat to the Baron. He seemed to
      receive Hermann’s amicable letter as a matter of course, and after a
      few words of general conversation, went to an inner room and brought out
      the everlasting treatise “Duelli Lex scripta, et non; aliterque.”
      He handed me the volume and asked me to look over some portion of it. I
      did so, but to little purpose, not being able to gather the least particle
      of meaning. He then took the book himself, and read me a chapter aloud. To
      my surprise, what he read proved to be a most horribly absurd account of a
      duel between two baboons. He now explained the mystery; showing that the
      volume, as it appeared prima facie, was written upon the plan of the
      nonsense verses of Du Bartas; that is to say, the language was ingeniously
      framed so as to present to the ear all the outward signs of
      intelligibility, and even of profundity, while in fact not a shadow of
      meaning existed. The key to the whole was found in leaving out every
      second and third word alternately, when there appeared a series of
      ludicrous quizzes upon a single combat as practised in modern times.
    </p>
<p>
      The Baron afterwards informed me that he had purposely thrown the treatise
      in Hermann’s way two or three weeks before the adventure, and that
      he was satisfied, from the general tenor of his conversation, that he had
      studied it with the deepest attention, and firmly believed it to be a work
      of unusual merit. Upon this hint he proceeded. Hermann would have died a
      thousand deaths rather than acknowledge his inability to understand
      anything and everything in the universe that had ever been written about
      the duello.
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
                                   Littleton Barry.
</pre>
<p>
<a name="2150link2H_4_0009">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      DIDDLING
    </h2>
<h3>
      CONSIDERED AS ONE OF THE EXACT SCIENCES.
    </h3>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
      Hey, diddle diddle
      The cat and the fiddle
</pre>
<p>
      SINCE the world began there have been two Jeremys. The one wrote a
      Jeremiad about usury, and was called Jeremy Bentham. He has been much
      admired by Mr. John Neal, and was a great man in a small way. The other
      gave name to the most important of the Exact Sciences, and was a great man
      in a great way—I may say, indeed, in the very greatest of ways.
    </p>
<p>
      Diddling—or the abstract idea conveyed by the verb to diddle—is
      sufficiently well understood. Yet the fact, the deed, the thing diddling,
      is somewhat difficult to define. We may get, however, at a tolerably
      distinct conception of the matter in hand, by defining—not the
      thing, diddling, in itself—but man, as an animal that diddles. Had
      Plato but hit upon this, he would have been spared the affront of the
      picked chicken.
    </p>
<p>
      Very pertinently it was demanded of Plato, why a picked chicken, which was
      clearly “a biped without feathers,” was not, according to his
      own definition, a man? But I am not to be bothered by any similar query.
      Man is an animal that diddles, and there is no animal that diddles but
      man. It will take an entire hen-coop of picked chickens to get over that.
    </p>
<p>
      What constitutes the essence, the nare, the principle of diddling is, in
      fact, peculiar to the class of creatures that wear coats and pantaloons. A
      crow thieves; a fox cheats; a weasel outwits; a man diddles. To diddle is
      his destiny. “Man was made to mourn,” says the poet. But not
      so:—he was made to diddle. This is his aim—his object—his
      end. And for this reason when a man’s diddled we say he’s
      “done.”
    </p>
<p>
      Diddling, rightly considered, is a compound, of which the ingredients are
      minuteness, interest, perseverance, ingenuity, audacity, nonchalance,
      originality, impertinence, and grin.
    </p>
<p>
      Minuteness:—Your diddler is minute. His operations are upon a small
      scale. His business is retail, for cash, or approved paper at sight.
      Should he ever be tempted into magnificent speculation, he then, at once,
      loses his distinctive features, and becomes what we term “financier.”
      This latter word conveys the diddling idea in every respect except that of
      magnitude. A diddler may thus be regarded as a banker in petto—a
      “financial operation,” as a diddle at Brobdignag. The one is
      to the other, as Homer to “Flaccus”—as a Mastodon to a
      mouse—as the tail of a comet to that of a pig.
    </p>
<p>
      Interest:—Your diddler is guided by self-interest. He scorns to
      diddle for the mere sake of the diddle. He has an object in view—his
      pocket—and yours. He regards always the main chance. He looks to
      Number One. You are Number Two, and must look to yourself.
    </p>
<p>
      Perseverance:—Your diddler perseveres. He is not readily
      discouraged. Should even the banks break, he cares nothing about it. He
      steadily pursues his end, and ‘Ut canis a corio nunquam
      absterrebitur uncto,’ so he never lets go of his game.
    </p>
<p>
      Ingenuity:—Your diddler is ingenious. He has constructiveness large.
      He understands plot. He invents and circumvents. Were he not Alexander he
      would be Diogenes. Were he not a diddler, he would be a maker of patent
      rat-traps or an angler for trout.
    </p>
<p>
      Audacity:—Your diddler is audacious.—He is a bold man. He
      carries the war into Africa. He conquers all by assault. He would not fear
      the daggers of Frey Herren. With a little more prudence Dick Turpin would
      have made a good diddler; with a trifle less blarney, Daniel O’Connell;
      with a pound or two more brains Charles the Twelfth.
    </p>
<p>
      Nonchalance:—Your diddler is nonchalant. He is not at all nervous.
      He never had any nerves. He is never seduced into a flurry. He is never
      put out—unless put out of doors. He is cool—cool as a
      cucumber. He is calm—“calm as a smile from Lady Bury.”
      He is easy—easy as an old glove, or the damsels of ancient Baiae.
    </p>
<p>
      Originality:—Your diddler is original—conscientiously so. His
      thoughts are his own. He would scorn to employ those of another. A stale
      trick is his aversion. He would return a purse, I am sure, upon
      discovering that he had obtained it by an unoriginal diddle.
    </p>
<p>
      Impertinence.—Your diddler is impertinent. He swaggers. He sets his
      arms a-kimbo. He thrusts his hands in his trowsers’ pockets. He
      sneers in your face. He treads on your corns. He eats your dinner, he
      drinks your wine, he borrows your money, he pulls your nose, he kicks your
      poodle, and he kisses your wife.
    </p>
<p>
      Grin:—Your true diddler winds up all with a grin. But this nobody
      sees but himself. He grins when his daily work is done—when his
      allotted labors are accomplished—at night in his own closet, and
      altogether for his own private entertainment. He goes home. He locks his
      door. He divests himself of his clothes. He puts out his candle. He gets
      into bed. He places his head upon the pillow. All this done, and your
      diddler grins. This is no hypothesis. It is a matter of course. I reason a
      priori, and a diddle would be no diddle without a grin.
    </p>
<p>
      The origin of the diddle is referrable to the infancy of the Human Race.
      Perhaps the first diddler was Adam. At all events, we can trace the
      science back to a very remote period of antiquity. The moderns, however,
      have brought it to a perfection never dreamed of by our thick-headed
      progenitors. Without pausing to speak of the “old saws,”
      therefore, I shall content myself with a compendious account of some of
      the more “modern instances.”
    </p>
<p>
      A very good diddle is this. A housekeeper in want of a sofa, for instance,
      is seen to go in and out of several cabinet warehouses. At length she
      arrives at one offering an excellent variety. She is accosted, and invited
      to enter, by a polite and voluble individual at the door. She finds a sofa
      well adapted to her views, and upon inquiring the price, is surprised and
      delighted to hear a sum named at least twenty per cent. lower than her
      expectations. She hastens to make the purchase, gets a bill and receipt,
      leaves her address, with a request that the article be sent home as
      speedily as possible, and retires amid a profusion of bows from the
      shopkeeper. The night arrives and no sofa. A servant is sent to make
      inquiry about the delay. The whole transaction is denied. No sofa has been
      sold—no money received—except by the diddler, who played
      shop-keeper for the nonce.
    </p>
<p>
      Our cabinet warehouses are left entirely unattended, and thus afford every
      facility for a trick of this kind. Visiters enter, look at furniture, and
      depart unheeded and unseen. Should any one wish to purchase, or to inquire
      the price of an article, a bell is at hand, and this is considered amply
      sufficient.
    </p>
<p>
      Again, quite a respectable diddle is this. A well-dressed individual
      enters a shop, makes a purchase to the value of a dollar; finds, much to
      his vexation, that he has left his pocket-book in another coat pocket; and
      so says to the shopkeeper—
    </p>
<p>
      “My dear sir, never mind; just oblige me, will you, by sending the
      bundle home? But stay! I really believe that I have nothing less than a
      five dollar bill, even there. However, you can send four dollars in change
      with the bundle, you know.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Very good, sir,” replies the shop-keeper, who entertains, at
      once, a lofty opinion of the high-mindedness of his customer. “I
      know fellows,” he says to himself, “who would just have put
      the goods under their arm, and walked off with a promise to call and pay
      the dollar as they came by in the afternoon.”
    </p>
<p>
      A boy is sent with the parcel and change. On the route, quite
      accidentally, he is met by the purchaser, who exclaims:
    </p>
<p>
      “Ah! This is my bundle, I see—I thought you had been home with
      it, long ago. Well, go on! My wife, Mrs. Trotter, will give you the five
      dollars—I left instructions with her to that effect. The change you
      might as well give to me—I shall want some silver for the Post
      Office. Very good! One, two, is this a good quarter?—three, four—quite
      right! Say to Mrs. Trotter that you met me, and be sure now and do not
      loiter on the way.”
    </p>
<p>
      The boy doesn’t loiter at all—but he is a very long time in
      getting back from his errand—for no lady of the precise name of Mrs.
      Trotter is to be discovered. He consoles himself, however, that he has not
      been such a fool as to leave the goods without the money, and re-entering
      his shop with a self-satisfied air, feels sensibly hurt and indignant when
      his master asks him what has become of the change.
    </p>
<p>
      A very simple diddle, indeed, is this. The captain of a ship, which is
      about to sail, is presented by an official looking person with an
      unusually moderate bill of city charges. Glad to get off so easily, and
      confused by a hundred duties pressing upon him all at once, he discharges
      the claim forthwith. In about fifteen minutes, another and less reasonable
      bill is handed him by one who soon makes it evident that the first
      collector was a diddler, and the original collection a diddle.
    </p>
<p>
      And here, too, is a somewhat similar thing. A steamboat is casting loose
      from the wharf. A traveller, portmanteau in hand, is discovered running
      toward the wharf, at full speed. Suddenly, he makes a dead halt, stoops,
      and picks up something from the ground in a very agitated manner. It is a
      pocket-book, and—“Has any gentleman lost a pocketbook?”
      he cries. No one can say that he has exactly lost a pocket-book; but a
      great excitement ensues, when the treasure trove is found to be of value.
      The boat, however, must not be detained.
    </p>
<p>
      “Time and tide wait for no man,” says the captain.
    </p>
<p>
      “For God’s sake, stay only a few minutes,” says the
      finder of the book—“the true claimant will presently appear.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Can’t wait!” replies the man in authority; “cast
      off there, d’ye hear?”
    </p>
<p>
      “What am I to do?” asks the finder, in great tribulation.
      “I am about to leave the country for some years, and I cannot
      conscientiously retain this large amount in my possession. I beg your
      pardon, sir,” [here he addresses a gentleman on shore,] “but
      you have the air of an honest man. Will you confer upon me the favor of
      taking charge of this pocket-book—I know I can trust you—and
      of advertising it? The notes, you see, amount to a very considerable sum.
      The owner will, no doubt, insist upon rewarding you for your trouble—
    </p>
<p>
      “Me!—no, you!—it was you who found the book.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Well, if you must have it so—I will take a small reward—just
      to satisfy your scruples. Let me see—why these notes are all
      hundreds—bless my soul! a hundred is too much to take—fifty
      would be quite enough, I am sure—
    </p>
<p>
      “Cast off there!” says the captain.
    </p>
<p>
      “But then I have no change for a hundred, and upon the whole, you
      had better—
    </p>
<p>
      “Cast off there!” says the captain.
    </p>
<p>
      “Never mind!” cries the gentleman on shore, who has been
      examining his own pocket-book for the last minute or so—“never
      mind! I can fix it—here is a fifty on the Bank of North America—throw
      the book.”
    </p>
<p>
      And the over-conscientious finder takes the fifty with marked reluctance,
      and throws the gentleman the book, as desired, while the steamboat fumes
      and fizzes on her way. In about half an hour after her departure, the
      “large amount” is seen to be a “counterfeit presentment,”
      and the whole thing a capital diddle.
    </p>
<p>
      A bold diddle is this. A camp-meeting, or something similar, is to be held
      at a certain spot which is accessible only by means of a free bridge. A
      diddler stations himself upon this bridge, respectfully informs all
      passers by of the new county law, which establishes a toll of one cent for
      foot passengers, two for horses and donkeys, and so forth, and so forth.
      Some grumble but all submit, and the diddler goes home a wealthier man by
      some fifty or sixty dollars well earned. This taking a toll from a great
      crowd of people is an excessively troublesome thing.
    </p>
<p>
      A neat diddle is this. A friend holds one of the diddler’s promises
      to pay, filled up and signed in due form, upon the ordinary blanks printed
      in red ink. The diddler purchases one or two dozen of these blanks, and
      every day dips one of them in his soup, makes his dog jump for it, and
      finally gives it to him as a bonne bouche. The note arriving at maturity,
      the diddler, with the diddler’s dog, calls upon the friend, and the
      promise to pay is made the topic of discussion. The friend produces it
      from his escritoire, and is in the act of reaching it to the diddler, when
      up jumps the diddler’s dog and devours it forthwith. The diddler is
      not only surprised but vexed and incensed at the absurd behavior of his
      dog, and expresses his entire readiness to cancel the obligation at any
      moment when the evidence of the obligation shall be forthcoming.
    </p>
<p>
      A very mean diddle is this. A lady is insulted in the street by a diddler’s
      accomplice. The diddler himself flies to her assistance, and, giving his
      friend a comfortable thrashing, insists upon attending the lady to her own
      door. He bows, with his hand upon his heart, and most respectfully bids
      her adieu. She entreats him, as her deliverer, to walk in and be
      introduced to her big brother and her papa. With a sigh, he declines to do
      so. “Is there no way, then, sir,” she murmurs, “in which
      I may be permitted to testify my gratitude?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Why, yes, madam, there is. Will you be kind enough to lend me a
      couple of shillings?”
    </p>
<p>
      In the first excitement of the moment the lady decides upon fainting
      outright. Upon second thought, however, she opens her purse-strings and
      delivers the specie. Now this, I say, is a diddle minute—for one
      entire moiety of the sum borrowed has to be paid to the gentleman who had
      the trouble of performing the insult, and who had then to stand still and
      be thrashed for performing it.
    </p>
<p>
      Rather a small but still a scientific diddle is this. The diddler
      approaches the bar of a tavern, and demands a couple of twists of tobacco.
      These are handed to him, when, having slightly examined them, he says:
    </p>
<p>
      “I don’t much like this tobacco. Here, take it back, and give
      me a glass of brandy and water in its place.” The brandy and water
      is furnished and imbibed, and the diddler makes his way to the door. But
      the voice of the tavern-keeper arrests him.
    </p>
<p>
      “I believe, sir, you have forgotten to pay for your brandy and
      water.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Pay for my brandy and water!—didn’t I give you the
      tobacco for the brandy and water? What more would you have?”
    </p>
<p>
      “But, sir, if you please, I don’t remember that you paid me
      for the tobacco.”
    </p>
<p>
      “What do you mean by that, you scoundrel?—Didn’t I give
      you back your tobacco? Isn’t that your tobacco lying there? Do you
      expect me to pay for what I did not take?”
    </p>
<p>
      “But, sir,” says the publican, now rather at a loss what to
      say, “but sir-”
    </p>
<p>
      “But me no buts, sir,” interrupts the diddler, apparently in
      very high dudgeon, and slamming the door after him, as he makes his
      escape.—“But me no buts, sir, and none of your tricks upon
      travellers.”
    </p>
<p>
      Here again is a very clever diddle, of which the simplicity is not its
      least recommendation. A purse, or pocket-book, being really lost, the
      loser inserts in one of the daily papers of a large city a fully
      descriptive advertisement.
    </p>
<p>
      Whereupon our diddler copies the facts of this advertisement, with a
      change of heading, of general phraseology and address. The original, for
      instance, is long, and verbose, is headed “A Pocket-Book Lost!”
      and requires the treasure, when found, to be left at No. 1 Tom Street. The
      copy is brief, and being headed with “Lost” only, indicates
      No. 2 Dick, or No. 3 Harry Street, as the locality at which the owner may
      be seen. Moreover, it is inserted in at least five or six of the daily
      papers of the day, while in point of time, it makes its appearance only a
      few hours after the original. Should it be read by the loser of the purse,
      he would hardly suspect it to have any reference to his own misfortune.
      But, of course, the chances are five or six to one, that the finder will
      repair to the address given by the diddler, rather than to that pointed
      out by the rightful proprietor. The former pays the reward, pockets the
      treasure and decamps.
    </p>
<p>
      Quite an analogous diddle is this. A lady of ton has dropped, some where
      in the street, a diamond ring of very unusual value. For its recovery, she
      offers some forty or fifty dollars reward—giving, in her
      advertisement, a very minute description of the gem, and of its settings,
      and declaring that, on its restoration at No. so and so, in such and such
      Avenue, the reward would be paid instanter, without a single question
      being asked. During the lady’s absence from home, a day or two
      afterwards, a ring is heard at the door of No. so and so, in such and such
      Avenue; a servant appears; the lady of the house is asked for and is
      declared to be out, at which astounding information, the visitor expresses
      the most poignant regret. His business is of importance and concerns the
      lady herself. In fact, he had the good fortune to find her diamond ring.
      But perhaps it would be as well that he should call again. “By no
      means!” says the servant; and “By no means!” says the
      lady’s sister and the lady’s sister-in-law, who are summoned
      forthwith. The ring is clamorously identified, the reward is paid, and the
      finder nearly thrust out of doors. The lady returns and expresses some
      little dissatisfaction with her sister and sister-in-law, because they
      happen to have paid forty or fifty dollars for a fac-simile of her diamond
      ring—a fac-simile made out of real pinch-beck and unquestionable
      paste.
    </p>
<p>
      But as there is really no end to diddling, so there would be none to this
      essay, were I even to hint at half the variations, or inflections, of
      which this science is susceptible. I must bring this paper, perforce, to a
      conclusion, and this I cannot do better than by a summary notice of a very
      decent, but rather elaborate diddle, of which our own city was made the
      theatre, not very long ago, and which was subsequently repeated with
      success, in other still more verdant localities of the Union. A
      middle-aged gentleman arrives in town from parts unknown. He is remarkably
      precise, cautious, staid, and deliberate in his demeanor. His dress is
      scrupulously neat, but plain, unostentatious. He wears a white cravat, an
      ample waistcoat, made with an eye to comfort alone; thick-soled
      cosy-looking shoes, and pantaloons without straps. He has the whole air,
      in fact, of your well-to-do, sober-sided, exact, and respectable “man
      of business,” Par excellence—one of the stern and outwardly
      hard, internally soft, sort of people that we see in the crack high
      comedies—fellows whose words are so many bonds, and who are noted
      for giving away guineas, in charity, with the one hand, while, in the way
      of mere bargain, they exact the uttermost fraction of a farthing with the
      other.
    </p>
<p>
      He makes much ado before he can get suited with a boarding house. He
      dislikes children. He has been accustomed to quiet. His habits are
      methodical—and then he would prefer getting into a private and
      respectable small family, piously inclined. Terms, however, are no object—only
      he must insist upon settling his bill on the first of every month, (it is
      now the second) and begs his landlady, when he finally obtains one to his
      mind, not on any account to forget his instructions upon this point—but
      to send in a bill, and receipt, precisely at ten o’clock, on the
      first day of every month, and under no circumstances to put it off to the
      second.
    </p>
<p>
      These arrangements made, our man of business rents an office in a
      reputable rather than a fashionable quarter of the town. There is nothing
      he more despises than pretense. “Where there is much show,” he
      says, “there is seldom any thing very solid behind”—an
      observation which so profoundly impresses his landlady’s fancy, that
      she makes a pencil memorandum of it forthwith, in her great family Bible,
      on the broad margin of the Proverbs of Solomon.
    </p>
<p>
      The next step is to advertise, after some such fashion as this, in the
      principal business six-pennies of the city—the pennies are eschewed
      as not “respectable”—and as demanding payment for all
      advertisements in advance. Our man of business holds it as a point of his
      faith that work should never be paid for until done.
    </p>
<p>
      “WANTED—The advertisers, being about to commence extensive
      business operations in this city, will require the services of three or
      four intelligent and competent clerks, to whom a liberal salary will be
      paid. The very best recommendations, not so much for capacity, as for
      integrity, will be expected. Indeed, as the duties to be performed involve
      high responsibilities, and large amounts of money must necessarily pass
      through the hands of those engaged, it is deemed advisable to demand a
      deposit of fifty dollars from each clerk employed. No person need apply,
      therefore, who is not prepared to leave this sum in the possession of the
      advertisers, and who cannot furnish the most satisfactory testimonials of
      morality. Young gentlemen piously inclined will be preferred. Application
      should be made between the hours of ten and eleven A. M., and four and
      five P. M., of Messrs.
    </p>
<p>
      “Bogs, Hogs Logs, Frogs &amp; Co.,
    </p>
<p>
      “No. 110 Dog Street”
    </p>
<p>
      By the thirty-first day of the month, this advertisement has brought to
      the office of Messrs. Bogs, Hogs, Logs, Frogs, and Company, some fifteen
      or twenty young gentlemen piously inclined. But our man of business is in
      no hurry to conclude a contract with any—no man of business is ever
      precipitate—and it is not until the most rigid catechism in respect
      to the piety of each young gentleman’s inclination, that his
      services are engaged and his fifty dollars receipted for, just by way of
      proper precaution, on the part of the respectable firm of Bogs, Hogs,
      Logs, Frogs, and Company. On the morning of the first day of the next
      month, the landlady does not present her bill, according to promise—a
      piece of neglect for which the comfortable head of the house ending in ogs
      would no doubt have chided her severely, could he have been prevailed upon
      to remain in town a day or two for that purpose.
    </p>
<p>
      As it is, the constables have had a sad time of it, running hither and
      thither, and all they can do is to declare the man of business most
      emphatically, a “hen knee high”—by which some persons
      imagine them to imply that, in fact, he is n. e. i.—by which again
      the very classical phrase non est inventus, is supposed to be understood.
      In the meantime the young gentlemen, one and all, are somewhat less
      piously inclined than before, while the landlady purchases a shilling’s
      worth of the Indian rubber, and very carefully obliterates the pencil
      memorandum that some fool has made in her great family Bible, on the broad
      margin of the Proverbs of Solomon.
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2150link2H_4_0010">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      THE ANGEL OF THE ODD
    </h2>
<h3>
      AN EXTRAVAGANZA.
    </h3>
<p>
      IT was a chilly November afternoon. I had just consummated an unusually
      hearty dinner, of which the dyspeptic <i>truffe</i> formed not the least
      important item, and was sitting alone in the dining-room, with my feet
      upon the fender, and at my elbow a small table which I had rolled up to
      the fire, and upon which were some apologies for dessert, with some
      miscellaneous bottles of wine, spirit and <i>liqueur</i>. In the morning I
      had been reading Glover’s “Leonidas,” Wilkie’s
      “Epigoniad,” Lamartine’s “Pilgrimage,”
      Barlow’s “Columbiad,” Tuckermann’s “Sicily,”
      and Griswold’s “Curiosities”; I am willing to confess,
      therefore, that I now felt a little stupid. I made effort to arouse myself
      by aid of frequent Lafitte, and, all failing, I betook myself to a stray
      newspaper in despair. Having carefully perused the column of “houses
      to let,” and the column of “dogs lost,” and then the two
      columns of “wives and apprentices runaway,” I attacked with
      great resolution the editorial matter, and, reading it from beginning to
      end without understanding a syllable, conceived the possibility of its
      being Chinese, and so re-read it from the end to the beginning, but with
      no more satisfactory result. I was about throwing away, in disgust,
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     “This folio of four pages, happy work
     Which not even critics criticise,”
 </pre>
<p>
      when I felt my attention somewhat aroused by the paragraph which follows:
    </p>
<p>
      “The avenues to death are numerous and strange. A London paper
      mentions the decease of a person from a singular cause. He was playing at
      ‘puff the dart,’ which is played with a long needle inserted
      in some worsted, and blown at a target through a tin tube. He placed the
      needle at the wrong end of the tube, and drawing his breath strongly to
      puff the dart forward with force, drew the needle into his throat. It
      entered the lungs, and in a few days killed him.”
    </p>
<p>
      Upon seeing this I fell into a great rage, without exactly knowing why.
      “This thing,” I exclaimed, “is a contemptible falsehood—a
      poor hoax—the lees of the invention of some pitiable penny-a-liner—of
      some wretched concoctor of accidents in Cocaigne. These fellows, knowing
      the extravagant gullibility of the age, set their wits to work in the
      imagination of improbable possibilities—-of odd accidents, as they
      term them; but to a reflecting intellect (like mine,” I added, in
      parenthesis, putting my forefinger unconsciously to the side of my nose,)
      “to a contemplative understanding such as I myself possess, it seems
      evident at once that the marvelous increase of late in these ‘odd
      accidents’ is by far the oddest accident of all. For my own part, I
      intend to believe nothing henceforward that has anything of the ‘singular’
      about it.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Mein Gott, den, vat a vool you bees for dat!” replied one of
      the most remarkable voices I ever heard. At first I took it for a rumbling
      in my ears—such as a man sometimes experiences when getting very
      drunk—but, upon second thought, I considered the sound as more
      nearly resembling that which proceeds from an empty barrel beaten with a
      big stick; and, in fact, this I should have concluded it to be, but for
      the articulation of the syllables and words. I am by no means naturally
      nervous, and the very few glasses of Lafitte which I had sipped served to
      embolden me no little, so that I felt nothing of trepidation, but merely
      uplifted my eyes with a leisurely movement, and looked carefully around
      the room for the intruder. I could not, however, perceive any one at all.
    </p>
<p>
      “Humph!” resumed the voice, as I continued my survey, “you
      mus pe so dronk as de pig, den, for not zee me as I zit here at your zide.”
    </p>
<p>
      Hereupon I bethought me of looking immediately before my nose, and there,
      sure enough, confronting me at the table sat a personage nondescript,
      although not altogether indescribable. His body was a wine-pipe, or a
      rum-puncheon, or something of that character, and had a truly Falstaffian
      air. In its nether extremity were inserted two kegs, which seemed to
      answer all the purposes of legs. For arms there dangled from the upper
      portion of the carcass two tolerably long bottles, with the necks outward
      for hands. All the head that I saw the monster possessed of was one of
      those Hessian canteens which resemble a large snuff-box with a hole in the
      middle of the lid. This canteen (with a funnel on its top, like a cavalier
      cap slouched over the eyes) was set on edge upon the puncheon, with the
      hole toward myself; and through this hole, which seemed puckered up like
      the mouth of a very precise old maid, the creature was emitting certain
      rumbling and grumbling noises which he evidently intended for intelligible
      talk.
    </p>
<p>
      “I zay,” said he, “you mos pe dronk as de pig, vor zit
      dare and not zee me zit ere; and I zay, doo, you mos pe pigger vool as de
      goose, vor to dispelief vat iz print in de print. ‘Tiz de troof—-dat
      it iz—eberry vord ob it.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Who are you, pray?” said I, with much dignity, although
      somewhat puzzled; “how did you get here? and what is it you are
      talking about?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Az vor ow I com’d ere,” replied the figure, “dat
      iz none of your pizzness; and as vor vat I be talking apout, I be talk
      apout vat I tink proper; and as vor who I be, vy dat is de very ting I com’d
      here for to let you zee for yourzelf.”
    </p>
<p>
      “You are a drunken vagabond,” said I, “and I shall ring
      the bell and order my footman to kick you into the street.”
    </p>
<p>
      “He! he! he!” said the fellow, “hu! hu! hu! dat you can’t
      do.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Can’t do!” said I, “what do you mean?—I can’t
      do what?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Ring de pell;” he replied, attempting a grin with his little
      villanous mouth.
    </p>
<p>
      Upon this I made an effort to get up, in order to put my threat into
      execution; but the ruffian just reached across the table very
      deliberately, and hitting me a tap on the forehead with the neck of one of
      the long bottles, knocked me back into the arm-chair from which I had half
      arisen. I was utterly astounded; and, for a moment, was quite at a loss
      what to do. In the meantime, he continued his talk.
    </p>
<p>
      “You zee,” said he, “it iz te bess vor zit still; and
      now you shall know who I pe. Look at me! zee! I am te <i>Angel ov te Odd</i>.”
    </p>
<p>
      “And odd enough, too,” I ventured to reply; “but I was
      always under the impression that an angel had wings.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Te wing!” he cried, highly incensed, “vat I pe do mit
      te wing? Mein Gott! do you take me vor a shicken?”
    </p>
<p>
      “No—oh no!” I replied, much alarmed, “you are no
      chicken—certainly not.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Well, den, zit still and pehabe yourself, or I’ll rap you
      again mid me vist. It iz te shicken ab te wing, und te owl ab te wing, und
      te imp ab te wing, und te head-teuffel ab te wing. Te angel ab <i>not</i>
      te wing, and I am te <i>Angel ov te Odd</i>.”
    </p>
<p>
      “And your business with me at present is—is”—
    </p>
<p>
      “My pizzness!” ejaculated the thing, “vy vat a low bred
      buppy you mos pe vor to ask a gentleman und an angel apout his pizziness!”
    </p>
<p>
      This language was rather more than I could bear, even from an angel; so,
      plucking up courage, I seized a salt-cellar which lay within reach, and
      hurled it at the head of the intruder. Either he dodged, however, or my
      aim was inaccurate; for all I accomplished was the demolition of the
      crystal which protected the dial of the clock upon the mantel-piece. As
      for the Angel, he evinced his sense of my assault by giving me two or
      three hard consecutive raps upon the forehead as before. These reduced me
      at once to submission, and I am almost ashamed to confess that either
      through pain or vexation, there came a few tears into my eyes.
    </p>
<p>
      “Mein Gott!” said the Angel of the Odd, apparently much
      softened at my distress; “mein Gott, te man is eder ferry dronk or
      ferry zorry. You mos not trink it so strong—you mos put te water in
      te wine. Here, trink dis, like a goot veller, und don’t gry now—don’t!”
    </p>
<p>
      Hereupon the Angel of the Odd replenished my goblet (which was about a
      third full of Port) with a colorless fluid that he poured from one of his
      hand bottles. I observed that these bottles had labels about their necks,
      and that these labels were inscribed “Kirschenwasser.”
    </p>
<p>
      The considerate kindness of the Angel mollified me in no little measure;
      and, aided by the water with which he diluted my Port more than once, I at
      length regained sufficient temper to listen to his very extraordinary
      discourse. I cannot pretend to recount all that he told me, but I gleaned
      from what he said that he was the genius who presided over the <i>contretemps</i>
      of mankind, and whose business it was to bring about the <i>odd accidents</i>
      which are continually astonishing the skeptic. Once or twice, upon my
      venturing to express my total incredulity in respect to his pretensions,
      he grew very angry indeed, so that at length I considered it the wiser
      policy to say nothing at all, and let him have his own way. He talked on,
      therefore, at great length, while I merely leaned back in my chair with my
      eyes shut, and amused myself with munching raisins and filliping the stems
      about the room. But, by-and-by, the Angel suddenly construed this behavior
      of mine into contempt. He arose in a terrible passion, slouched his funnel
      down over his eyes, swore a vast oath, uttered a threat of some character
      which I did not precisely comprehend, and finally made me a low bow and
      departed, wishing me, in the language of the archbishop in Gil-Blas,
      “<i>beaucoup de bonheur et un peu plus de bon sens</i>.”
    </p>
<p>
      His departure afforded me relief. The <i>very</i> few glasses of Lafitte
      that I had sipped had the effect of rendering me drowsy, and I felt
      inclined to take a nap of some fifteen or twenty minutes, as is my custom
      after dinner. At six I had an appointment of consequence, which it was
      quite indispensable that I should keep. The policy of insurance for my
      dwelling house had expired the day before; and, some dispute having
      arisen, it was agreed that, at six, I should meet the board of directors
      of the company and settle the terms of a renewal. Glancing upward at the
      clock on the mantel-piece, (for I felt too drowsy to take out my watch), I
      had the pleasure to find that I had still twenty-five minutes to spare. It
      was half past five; I could easily walk to the insurance office in five
      minutes; and my usual siestas had never been known to exceed five and
      twenty. I felt sufficiently safe, therefore, and composed myself to my
      slumbers forthwith.
    </p>
<p>
      Having completed them to my satisfaction, I again looked toward the
      time-piece and was half inclined to believe in the possibility of odd
      accidents when I found that, instead of my ordinary fifteen or twenty
      minutes, I had been dozing only three; for it still wanted seven and
      twenty of the appointed hour. I betook myself again to my nap, and at
      length a second time awoke, when, to my utter amazement, it <i>still</i>
      wanted twenty-seven minutes of six. I jumped up to examine the clock, and
      found that it had ceased running. My watch informed me that it was half
      past seven; and, of course, having slept two hours, I was too late for my
      appointment. “It will make no difference,” I said: “I
      can call at the office in the morning and apologize; in the meantime what
      can be the matter with the clock?” Upon examining it I discovered
      that one of the raisin stems which I had been filliping about the room
      during the discourse of the Angel of the Odd, had flown through the
      fractured crystal, and lodging, singularly enough, in the key-hole, with
      an end projecting outward, had thus arrested the revolution of the minute
      hand.
    </p>
<p>
      “Ah!” said I, “I see how it is. This thing speaks for
      itself. A natural accident, such as <i>will</i> happen now and then!”
    </p>
<p>
      I gave the matter no further consideration, and at my usual hour retired
      to bed. Here, having placed a candle upon a reading stand at the bed head,
      and having made an attempt to peruse some pages of the “Omnipresence
      of the Deity,” I unfortunately fell asleep in less than twenty
      seconds, leaving the light burning as it was.
    </p>
<p>
      My dreams were terrifically disturbed by visions of the Angel of the Odd.
      Methought he stood at the foot of the couch, drew aside the curtains, and,
      in the hollow, detestable tones of a rum puncheon, menaced me with the
      bitterest vengeance for the contempt with which I had treated him. He
      concluded a long harangue by taking off his funnel-cap, inserting the tube
      into my gullet, and thus deluging me with an ocean of Kirschenw?sser,
      which he poured, in a continuous flood, from one of the long necked
      bottles that stood him instead of an arm. My agony was at length
      insufferable, and I awoke just in time to perceive that a rat had ran off
      with the lighted candle from the stand, but <i>not</i> in season to
      prevent his making his escape with it through the hole. Very soon, a
      strong suffocating odor assailed my nostrils; the house, I clearly
      perceived, was on fire. In a few minutes the blaze broke forth with
      violence, and in an incredibly brief period the entire building was
      wrapped in flames. All egress from my chamber, except through a window,
      was cut off. The crowd, however, quickly procured and raised a long
      ladder. By means of this I was descending rapidly, and in apparent safety,
      when a huge hog, about whose rotund stomach, and indeed about whose whole
      air and physiognomy, there was something which reminded me of the Angel of
      the Odd,—when this hog, I say, which hitherto had been quietly
      slumbering in the mud, took it suddenly into his head that his left
      shoulder needed scratching, and could find no more convenient rubbing-post
      than that afforded by the foot of the ladder. In an instant I was
      precipitated and had the misfortune to fracture my arm.
    </p>
<p>
      This accident, with the loss of my insurance, and with the more serious
      loss of my hair, the whole of which had been singed off by the fire,
      predisposed me to serious impressions, so that, finally, I made up my mind
      to take a wife. There was a rich widow disconsolate for the loss of her
      seventh husband, and to her wounded spirit I offered the balm of my vows.
      She yielded a reluctant consent to my prayers. I knelt at her feet in
      gratitude and adoration. She blushed and bowed her luxuriant tresses into
      close contact with those supplied me, temporarily, by Grandjean. I know
      not how the entanglement took place, but so it was. I arose with a shining
      pate, wigless; she in disdain and wrath, half buried in alien hair. Thus
      ended my hopes of the widow by an accident which could not have been
      anticipated, to be sure, but which the natural sequence of events had
      brought about.
    </p>
<p>
      Without despairing, however, I undertook the siege of a less implacable
      heart. The fates were again propitious for a brief period; but again a
      trivial incident interfered. Meeting my betrothed in an avenue thronged
      with the <i>?lite</i> of the city, I was hastening to greet her with one
      of my best considered bows, when a small particle of some foreign matter,
      lodging in the corner of my eye, rendered me, for the moment, completely
      blind. Before I could recover my sight, the lady of my love had
      disappeared—irreparably affronted at what she chose to consider my
      premeditated rudeness in passing her by ungreeted. While I stood
      bewildered at the suddenness of this accident, (which might have happened,
      nevertheless, to any one under the sun), and while I still continued
      incapable of sight, I was accosted by the Angel of the Odd, who proffered
      me his aid with a civility which I had no reason to expect. He examined my
      disordered eye with much gentleness and skill, informed me that I had a
      drop in it, and (whatever a “drop” was) took it out, and
      afforded me relief.
    </p>
<p>
      I now considered it high time to die, (since fortune had so determined to
      persecute me,) and accordingly made my way to the nearest river. Here,
      divesting myself of my clothes, (for there is no reason why we cannot die
      as we were born), I threw myself headlong into the current; the sole
      witness of my fate being a solitary crow that had been seduced into the
      eating of brandy-saturated corn, and so had staggered away from his
      fellows. No sooner had I entered the water than this bird took it into its
      head to fly away with the most indispensable portion of my apparel.
      Postponing, therefore, for the present, my suicidal design, I just slipped
      my nether extremities into the sleeves of my coat, and betook myself to a
      pursuit of the felon with all the nimbleness which the case required and
      its circumstances would admit. But my evil destiny attended me still. As I
      ran at full speed, with my nose up in the atmosphere, and intent only upon
      the purloiner of my property, I suddenly perceived that my feet rested no
      longer upon <i>terra-firma</i>; the fact is, I had thrown myself over a
      precipice, and should inevitably have been dashed to pieces but for my
      good fortune in grasping the end of a long guide-rope, which depended from
      a passing balloon.
    </p>
<p>
      As soon as I sufficiently recovered my senses to comprehend the terrific
      predicament in which I stood or rather hung, I exerted all the power of my
      lungs to make that predicament known to the ?ronaut overhead. But for a
      long time I exerted myself in vain. Either the fool could not, or the
      villain would not perceive me. Meantime the machine rapidly soared, while
      my strength even more rapidly failed. I was soon upon the point of
      resigning myself to my fate, and dropping quietly into the sea, when my
      spirits were suddenly revived by hearing a hollow voice from above, which
      seemed to be lazily humming an opera air. Looking up, I perceived the
      Angel of the Odd. He was leaning with his arms folded, over the rim of the
      car; and with a pipe in his mouth, at which he puffed leisurely, seemed to
      be upon excellent terms with himself and the universe. I was too much
      exhausted to speak, so I merely regarded him with an imploring air.
    </p>
<p>
      For several minutes, although he looked me full in the face, he said
      nothing. At length removing carefully his meerschaum from the right to the
      left corner of his mouth, he condescended to speak.
    </p>
<p>
      “Who pe you,” he asked, “und what der teuffel you pe do
      dare?”
    </p>
<p>
      To this piece of impudence, cruelty and affectation, I could reply only by
      ejaculating the monosyllable “Help!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Elp!” echoed the ruffian—“not I. Dare iz te
      pottle—elp yourself, und pe tam’d!”
    </p>
<p>
      With these words he let fall a heavy bottle of Kirschenwasser which,
      dropping precisely upon the crown of my head, caused me to imagine that my
      brains were entirely knocked out. Impressed with this idea, I was about to
      relinquish my hold and give up the ghost with a good grace, when I was
      arrested by the cry of the Angel, who bade me hold on.
    </p>
<p>
      “Old on!” he said; “don’t pe in te urry—don’t.
      Will you pe take de odder pottle, or ave you pe got zober yet and come to
      your zenzes?”
    </p>
<p>
      I made haste, hereupon, to nod my head twice—once in the negative,
      meaning thereby that I would prefer not taking the other bottle at present—and
      once in the affirmative, intending thus to imply that I <i>was</i> sober
      and <i>had</i> positively come to my senses. By these means I somewhat
      softened the Angel.
    </p>
<p>
      “Und you pelief, ten,” he inquired, “at te last? You
      pelief, ten, in te possibilty of te odd?”
    </p>
<p>
      I again nodded my head in assent.
    </p>
<p>
      “Und you ave pelief in <i>me</i>, te Angel of te Odd?”
    </p>
<p>
      I nodded again.
    </p>
<p>
      “Und you acknowledge tat you pe te blind dronk and te vool?”
    </p>
<p>
      I nodded once more.
    </p>
<p>
      “Put your right hand into your left hand preeches pocket, ten, in
      token ov your vull zubmizzion unto te Angel ov te Odd.”
    </p>
<p>
      This thing, for very obvious reasons, I found it quite impossible to do.
      In the first place, my left arm had been broken in my fall from the
      ladder, and, therefore, had I let go my hold with the right hand, I must
      have let go altogether. In the second place, I could have no breeches
      until I came across the crow. I was therefore obliged, much to my regret,
      to shake my head in the negative—intending thus to give the Angel to
      understand that I found it inconvenient, just at that moment, to comply
      with his very reasonable demand! No sooner, however, had I ceased shaking
      my head than—
    </p>
<p>
      “Go to der teuffel, ten!” roared the Angel of the Odd.
    </p>
<p>
      In pronouncing these words, he drew a sharp knife across the guide-rope by
      which I was suspended, and as we then happened to be precisely over my own
      house, (which, during my peregrinations, had been handsomely rebuilt,) it
      so occurred that I tumbled headlong down the ample chimney and alit upon
      the dining-room hearth.
    </p>
<p>
      Upon coming to my senses, (for the fall had very thoroughly stunned me,) I
      found it about four o’clock in the morning. I lay outstretched where
      I had fallen from the balloon. My head grovelled in the ashes of an
      extinguished fire, while my feet reposed upon the wreck of a small table,
      overthrown, and amid the fragments of a miscellaneous dessert,
      intermingled with a newspaper, some broken glass and shattered bottles,
      and an empty jug of the Schiedam Kirschenwasser. Thus revenged himself the
      Angel of the Odd.
    </p>
<p>
      [Mabbott states that Griswold “obviously had a revised form”
      for use in the 1856 volume of Poe’s works. Mabbott does not
      substantiate this claim, but it is surely not unreasonable. An editor, and
      even typographical errors, may have produced nearly all of the very minor
      changes made in this version. (Indeed, two very necessary words were
      clearly dropped by accident.) An editor might have corrected “Wickliffe’s
      ‘Epigoniad’” to “Wilkie’s ‘Epigoniad’,”
      but is unlikely to have added “Tuckerman’s ‘Sicily’”
      to the list of books read by the narrator. Griswold was not above forgery
      (in Poe’s letters) when it suited his purpose, but would have too
      little to gain by such an effort in this instance.]
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2150link2H_4_0011">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      MELLONTA TAUTA
    </h2>
<h3>
      TO THE EDITORS OF THE LADY’S BOOK:
    </h3>
<p>
      I have the honor of sending you, for your magazine, an article which I
      hope you will be able to comprehend rather more distinctly than I do
      myself. It is a translation, by my friend, Martin Van Buren Mavis,
      (sometimes called the “Poughkeepsie Seer”) of an odd-looking
      MS. which I found, about a year ago, tightly corked up in a jug floating
      in the Mare Tenebrarum—a sea well described by the Nubian
      geographer, but seldom visited now-a-days, except for the
      transcendentalists and divers for crotchets.
    </p>
<p>
      Truly yours,
    </p>
<p>
      EDGAR A. POE
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
  {this paragraph not in the volume—ED}
</pre>
<p>
      ON BOARD BALLOON “SKYLARK”
    </p>
<p>
      April, 1, 2848
    </p>
<p>
      NOW, my dear friend—now, for your sins, you are to suffer the
      infliction of a long gossiping letter. I tell you distinctly that I am
      going to punish you for all your impertinences by being as tedious, as
      discursive, as incoherent and as unsatisfactory as possible. Besides, here
      I am, cooped up in a dirty balloon, with some one or two hundred of the
      canaille, all bound on a pleasure excursion, (what a funny idea some
      people have of pleasure!) and I have no prospect of touching terra firma
      for a month at least. Nobody to talk to. Nothing to do. When one has
      nothing to do, then is the time to correspond with ones friends. You
      perceive, then, why it is that I write you this letter—it is on
      account of my ennui and your sins.
    </p>
<p>
      Get ready your spectacles and make up your mind to be annoyed. I mean to
      write at you every day during this odious voyage.
    </p>
<p>
      Heigho! when will any Invention visit the human pericranium? Are we
      forever to be doomed to the thousand inconveniences of the balloon? Will
      nobody contrive a more expeditious mode of progress? The jog-trot
      movement, to my thinking, is little less than positive torture. Upon my
      word we have not made more than a hundred miles the hour since leaving
      home! The very birds beat us—at least some of them. I assure you
      that I do not exaggerate at all. Our motion, no doubt, seems slower than
      it actually is—this on account of our having no objects about us by
      which to estimate our velocity, and on account of our going with the wind.
      To be sure, whenever we meet a balloon we have a chance of perceiving our
      rate, and then, I admit, things do not appear so very bad. Accustomed as I
      am to this mode of travelling, I cannot get over a kind of giddiness
      whenever a balloon passes us in a current directly overhead. It always
      seems to me like an immense bird of prey about to pounce upon us and carry
      us off in its claws. One went over us this morning about sunrise, and so
      nearly overhead that its drag-rope actually brushed the network suspending
      our car, and caused us very serious apprehension. Our captain said that if
      the material of the bag had been the trumpery varnished “silk”
      of five hundred or a thousand years ago, we should inevitably have been
      damaged. This silk, as he explained it to me, was a fabric composed of the
      entrails of a species of earth-worm. The worm was carefully fed on
      mulberries—kind of fruit resembling a water-melon—and, when
      sufficiently fat, was crushed in a mill. The paste thus arising was called
      papyrus in its primary state, and went through a variety of processes
      until it finally became “silk.” Singular to relate, it was
      once much admired as an article of female dress! Balloons were also very
      generally constructed from it. A better kind of material, it appears, was
      subsequently found in the down surrounding the seed-vessels of a plant
      vulgarly called euphorbium, and at that time botanically termed milk-weed.
      This latter kind of silk was designated as silk-buckingham, on account of
      its superior durability, and was usually prepared for use by being
      varnished with a solution of gum caoutchouc—a substance which in
      some respects must have resembled the gutta percha now in common use. This
      caoutchouc was occasionally called Indian rubber or rubber of twist, and
      was no doubt one of the numerous fungi. Never tell me again that I am not
      at heart an antiquarian.
    </p>
<p>
      Talking of drag-ropes—our own, it seems, has this moment knocked a
      man overboard from one of the small magnetic propellers that swarm in
      ocean below us—a boat of about six thousand tons, and, from all
      accounts, shamefully crowded. These diminutive barques should be
      prohibited from carrying more than a definite number of passengers. The
      man, of course, was not permitted to get on board again, and was soon out
      of sight, he and his life-preserver. I rejoice, my dear friend, that we
      live in an age so enlightened that no such a thing as an individual is
      supposed to exist. It is the mass for which the true Humanity cares.
      By-the-by, talking of Humanity, do you know that our immortal Wiggins is
      not so original in his views of the Social Condition and so forth, as his
      contemporaries are inclined to suppose? Pundit assures me that the same
      ideas were put nearly in the same way, about a thousand years ago, by an
      Irish philosopher called Furrier, on account of his keeping a retail shop
      for cat peltries and other furs. Pundit knows, you know; there can be no
      mistake about it. How very wonderfully do we see verified every day, the
      profound observation of the Hindoo Aries Tottle (as quoted by Pundit)—“Thus
      must we say that, not once or twice, or a few times, but with almost
      infinite repetitions, the same opinions come round in a circle among men.”
    </p>
<p>
      April 2.—Spoke to-day the magnetic cutter in charge of the middle
      section of floating telegraph wires. I learn that when this species of
      telegraph was first put into operation by Horse, it was considered quite
      impossible to convey the wires over sea, but now we are at a loss to
      comprehend where the difficulty lay! So wags the world. Tempora mutantur—excuse
      me for quoting the Etruscan. What would we do without the Atalantic
      telegraph? (Pundit says Atlantic was the ancient adjective.) We lay to a
      few minutes to ask the cutter some questions, and learned, among other
      glorious news, that civil war is raging in Africa, while the plague is
      doing its good work beautifully both in Yurope and Ayesher. Is it not
      truly remarkable that, before the magnificent light shed upon philosophy
      by Humanity, the world was accustomed to regard War and Pestilence as
      calamities? Do you know that prayers were actually offered up in the
      ancient temples to the end that these evils (!) might not be visited upon
      mankind? Is it not really difficult to comprehend upon what principle of
      interest our forefathers acted? Were they so blind as not to perceive that
      the destruction of a myriad of individuals is only so much positive
      advantage to the mass!
    </p>
<p>
      April 3.—It is really a very fine amusement to ascend the
      rope-ladder leading to the summit of the balloon-bag, and thence survey
      the surrounding world. From the car below you know the prospect is not so
      comprehensive—you can see little vertically. But seated here (where
      I write this) in the luxuriously-cushioned open piazza of the summit, one
      can see everything that is going on in all directions. Just now there is
      quite a crowd of balloons in sight, and they present a very animated
      appearance, while the air is resonant with the hum of so many millions of
      human voices. I have heard it asserted that when Yellow or (Pundit will
      have it) Violet, who is supposed to have been the first aeronaut,
      maintained the practicability of traversing the atmosphere in all
      directions, by merely ascending or descending until a favorable current
      was attained, he was scarcely hearkened to at all by his contemporaries,
      who looked upon him as merely an ingenious sort of madman, because the
      philosophers (?) of the day declared the thing impossible. Really now it
      does seem to me quite unaccountable how any thing so obviously feasible
      could have escaped the sagacity of the ancient savans. But in all ages the
      great obstacles to advancement in Art have been opposed by the so-called
      men of science. To be sure, our men of science are not quite so bigoted as
      those of old:—oh, I have something so queer to tell you on this
      topic. Do you know that it is not more than a thousand years ago since the
      metaphysicians consented to relieve the people of the singular fancy that
      there existed but two possible roads for the attainment of Truth! Believe
      it if you can! It appears that long, long ago, in the night of Time, there
      lived a Turkish philosopher (or Hindoo possibly) called Aries Tottle. This
      person introduced, or at all events propagated what was termed the
      deductive or a priori mode of investigation. He started with what he
      maintained to be axioms or “self-evident truths,” and thence
      proceeded “logically” to results. His greatest disciples were
      one Neuclid, and one Cant. Well, Aries Tottle flourished supreme until
      advent of one Hog, surnamed the “Ettrick Shepherd,” who
      preached an entirely different system, which he called the a posteriori or
      inductive. His plan referred altogether to Sensation. He proceeded by
      observing, analyzing, and classifying facts-instantiae naturae, as they
      were affectedly called—into general laws. Aries Tottle’s mode,
      in a word, was based on noumena; Hog’s on phenomena. Well, so great
      was the admiration excited by this latter system that, at its first
      introduction, Aries Tottle fell into disrepute; but finally he recovered
      ground and was permitted to divide the realm of Truth with his more modern
      rival. The savans now maintained the Aristotelian and Baconian roads were
      the sole possible avenues to knowledge. “Baconian,” you must
      know, was an adjective invented as equivalent to Hog-ian and more
      euphonious and dignified.
    </p>
<p>
      Now, my dear friend, I do assure you, most positively, that I represent
      this matter fairly, on the soundest authority and you can easily
      understand how a notion so absurd on its very face must have operated to
      retard the progress of all true knowledge—which makes its advances
      almost invariably by intuitive bounds. The ancient idea confined
      investigations to crawling; and for hundreds of years so great was the
      infatuation about Hog especially, that a virtual end was put to all
      thinking, properly so called. No man dared utter a truth to which he felt
      himself indebted to his Soul alone. It mattered not whether the truth was
      even demonstrably a truth, for the bullet-headed savans of the time
      regarded only the road by which he had attained it. They would not even
      look at the end. “Let us see the means,” they cried, “the
      means!” If, upon investigation of the means, it was found to come
      under neither the category Aries (that is to say Ram) nor under the
      category Hog, why then the savans went no farther, but pronounced the
      “theorist” a fool, and would have nothing to do with him or
      his truth.
    </p>
<p>
      Now, it cannot be maintained, even, that by the crawling system the
      greatest amount of truth would be attained in any long series of ages, for
      the repression of imagination was an evil not to be compensated for by any
      superior certainty in the ancient modes of investigation. The error of
      these Jurmains, these Vrinch, these Inglitch, and these Amriccans (the
      latter, by the way, were our own immediate progenitors), was an error
      quite analogous with that of the wiseacre who fancies that he must
      necessarily see an object the better the more closely he holds it to his
      eyes. These people blinded themselves by details. When they proceeded
      Hoggishly, their “facts” were by no means always facts—a
      matter of little consequence had it not been for assuming that they were
      facts and must be facts because they appeared to be such. When they
      proceeded on the path of the Ram, their course was scarcely as straight as
      a ram’s horn, for they never had an axiom which was an axiom at all.
      They must have been very blind not to see this, even in their own day; for
      even in their own day many of the long “established” axioms
      had been rejected. For example—“Ex nihilo nihil fit”;
      “a body cannot act where it is not”; “there cannot exist
      antipodes”; “darkness cannot come out of light”—all
      these, and a dozen other similar propositions, formerly admitted without
      hesitation as axioms, were, even at the period of which I speak, seen to
      be untenable. How absurd in these people, then, to persist in putting
      faith in “axioms” as immutable bases of Truth! But even out of
      the mouths of their soundest reasoners it is easy to demonstrate the
      futility, the impalpability of their axioms in general. Who was the
      soundest of their logicians? Let me see! I will go and ask Pundit and be
      back in a minute.... Ah, here we have it! Here is a book written nearly a
      thousand years ago and lately translated from the Inglitch—which, by
      the way, appears to have been the rudiment of the Amriccan. Pundit says it
      is decidedly the cleverest ancient work on its topic, Logic. The author
      (who was much thought of in his day) was one Miller, or Mill; and we find
      it recorded of him, as a point of some importance, that he had a
      mill-horse called Bentham. But let us glance at the treatise!
    </p>
<p>
      Ah!—“Ability or inability to conceive,” says Mr. Mill,
      very properly, “is in no case to be received as a criterion of
      axiomatic truth.” What modern in his senses would ever think of
      disputing this truism? The only wonder with us must be, how it happened
      that Mr. Mill conceived it necessary even to hint at any thing so obvious.
      So far good—but let us turn over another paper. What have we here?—“Contradictories
      cannot both be true—that is, cannot co-exist in nature.” Here
      Mr. Mill means, for example, that a tree must be either a tree or not a
      tree—that it cannot be at the same time a tree and not a tree. Very
      well; but I ask him why. His reply is this—and never pretends to be
      any thing else than this—“Because it is impossible to conceive
      that contradictories can both be true.” But this is no answer at
      all, by his own showing, for has he not just admitted as a truism that
      “ability or inability to conceive is in no case to be received as a
      criterion of axiomatic truth.”
    </p>
<p>
      Now I do not complain of these ancients so much because their logic is, by
      their own showing, utterly baseless, worthless and fantastic altogether,
      as because of their pompous and imbecile proscription of all other roads
      of Truth, of all other means for its attainment than the two preposterous
      paths—the one of creeping and the one of crawling—to which
      they have dared to confine the Soul that loves nothing so well as to soar.
    </p>
<p>
      By the by, my dear friend, do you not think it would have puzzled these
      ancient dogmaticians to have determined by which of their two roads it was
      that the most important and most sublime of all their truths was, in
      effect, attained? I mean the truth of Gravitation. Newton owed it to
      Kepler. Kepler admitted that his three laws were guessed at—these
      three laws of all laws which led the great Inglitch mathematician to his
      principle, the basis of all physical principle—to go behind which we
      must enter the Kingdom of Metaphysics. Kepler guessed—that is to say
      imagined. He was essentially a “theorist”—that word now
      of so much sanctity, formerly an epithet of contempt. Would it not have
      puzzled these old moles too, to have explained by which of the two “roads”
      a cryptographist unriddles a cryptograph of more than usual secrecy, or by
      which of the two roads Champollion directed mankind to those enduring and
      almost innumerable truths which resulted from his deciphering the
      Hieroglyphics.
    </p>
<p>
      One word more on this topic and I will be done boring you. Is it not
      passing strange that, with their eternal prattling about roads to Truth,
      these bigoted people missed what we now so clearly perceive to be the
      great highway—that of Consistency? Does it not seem singular how
      they should have failed to deduce from the works of God the vital fact
      that a perfect consistency must be an absolute truth! How plain has been
      our progress since the late announcement of this proposition!
      Investigation has been taken out of the hands of the ground-moles and
      given, as a task, to the true and only true thinkers, the men of ardent
      imagination. These latter theorize. Can you not fancy the shout of scorn
      with which my words would be received by our progenitors were it possible
      for them to be now looking over my shoulder? These men, I say, theorize;
      and their theories are simply corrected, reduced, systematized—cleared,
      little by little, of their dross of inconsistency—until, finally, a
      perfect consistency stands apparent which even the most stolid admit,
      because it is a consistency, to be an absolute and an unquestionable
      truth.
    </p>
<p>
      April 4.—The new gas is doing wonders, in conjunction with the new
      improvement with gutta percha. How very safe, commodious, manageable, and
      in every respect convenient are our modern balloons! Here is an immense
      one approaching us at the rate of at least a hundred and fifty miles an
      hour. It seems to be crowded with people—perhaps there are three or
      four hundred passengers—and yet it soars to an elevation of nearly a
      mile, looking down upon poor us with sovereign contempt. Still a hundred
      or even two hundred miles an hour is slow travelling after all. Do you
      remember our flight on the railroad across the Kanadaw continent?—fully
      three hundred miles the hour—that was travelling. Nothing to be seen
      though—nothing to be done but flirt, feast and dance in the
      magnificent saloons. Do you remember what an odd sensation was experienced
      when, by chance, we caught a glimpse of external objects while the cars
      were in full flight? Every thing seemed unique—in one mass. For my
      part, I cannot say but that I preferred the travelling by the slow train
      of a hundred miles the hour. Here we were permitted to have glass windows—even
      to have them open—and something like a distinct view of the country
      was attainable.... Pundit says that the route for the great Kanadaw
      railroad must have been in some measure marked out about nine hundred
      years ago! In fact, he goes so far as to assert that actual traces of a
      road are still discernible—traces referable to a period quite as
      remote as that mentioned. The track, it appears was double only; ours, you
      know, has twelve paths; and three or four new ones are in preparation. The
      ancient rails were very slight, and placed so close together as to be,
      according to modern notions, quite frivolous, if not dangerous in the
      extreme. The present width of track—fifty feet—is considered,
      indeed, scarcely secure enough. For my part, I make no doubt that a track
      of some sort must have existed in very remote times, as Pundit asserts;
      for nothing can be clearer, to my mind, than that, at some period—not
      less than seven centuries ago, certainly—the Northern and Southern
      Kanadaw continents were united; the Kanawdians, then, would have been
      driven, by necessity, to a great railroad across the continent.
    </p>
<p>
      April 5.—I am almost devoured by ennui. Pundit is the only
      conversible person on board; and he, poor soul! can speak of nothing but
      antiquities. He has been occupied all the day in the attempt to convince
      me that the ancient Amriccans governed themselves!—did ever anybody
      hear of such an absurdity?—that they existed in a sort of
      every-man-for-himself confederacy, after the fashion of the “prairie
      dogs” that we read of in fable. He says that they started with the
      queerest idea conceivable, viz: that all men are born free and equal—this
      in the very teeth of the laws of gradation so visibly impressed upon all
      things both in the moral and physical universe. Every man “voted,”
      as they called it—that is to say meddled with public affairs—until
      at length, it was discovered that what is everybody’s business is
      nobody’s, and that the “Republic” (so the absurd thing
      was called) was without a government at all. It is related, however, that
      the first circumstance which disturbed, very particularly, the
      self-complacency of the philosophers who constructed this “Republic,”
      was the startling discovery that universal suffrage gave opportunity for
      fraudulent schemes, by means of which any desired number of votes might at
      any time be polled, without the possibility of prevention or even
      detection, by any party which should be merely villainous enough not to be
      ashamed of the fraud. A little reflection upon this discovery sufficed to
      render evident the consequences, which were that rascality must
      predominate—in a word, that a republican government could never be
      any thing but a rascally one. While the philosophers, however, were busied
      in blushing at their stupidity in not having foreseen these inevitable
      evils, and intent upon the invention of new theories, the matter was put
      to an abrupt issue by a fellow of the name of Mob, who took every thing
      into his own hands and set up a despotism, in comparison with which those
      of the fabulous Zeros and Hellofagabaluses were respectable and
      delectable. This Mob (a foreigner, by-the-by), is said to have been the
      most odious of all men that ever encumbered the earth. He was a giant in
      stature—insolent, rapacious, filthy, had the gall of a bullock with
      the heart of a hyena and the brains of a peacock. He died, at length, by
      dint of his own energies, which exhausted him. Nevertheless, he had his
      uses, as every thing has, however vile, and taught mankind a lesson which
      to this day it is in no danger of forgetting—never to run directly
      contrary to the natural analogies. As for Republicanism, no analogy could
      be found for it upon the face of the earth—unless we except the case
      of the “prairie dogs,” an exception which seems to
      demonstrate, if anything, that democracy is a very admirable form of
      government—for dogs.
    </p>
<p>
      April 6.—Last night had a fine view of Alpha Lyrae, whose disk,
      through our captain’s spy-glass, subtends an angle of half a degree,
      looking very much as our sun does to the naked eye on a misty day. Alpha
      Lyrae, although so very much larger than our sun, by the by, resembles him
      closely as regards its spots, its atmosphere, and in many other
      particulars. It is only within the last century, Pundit tells me, that the
      binary relation existing between these two orbs began even to be
      suspected. The evident motion of our system in the heavens was (strange to
      say!) referred to an orbit about a prodigious star in the centre of the
      galaxy. About this star, or at all events about a centre of gravity common
      to all the globes of the Milky Way and supposed to be near Alcyone in the
      Pleiades, every one of these globes was declared to be revolving, our own
      performing the circuit in a period of 117,000,000 of years! We, with our
      present lights, our vast telescopic improvements, and so forth, of course
      find it difficult to comprehend the ground of an idea such as this. Its
      first propagator was one Mudler. He was led, we must presume, to this wild
      hypothesis by mere analogy in the first instance; but, this being the
      case, he should have at least adhered to analogy in its development. A
      great central orb was, in fact, suggested; so far Mudler was consistent.
      This central orb, however, dynamically, should have been greater than all
      its surrounding orbs taken together. The question might then have been
      asked—“Why do we not see it?”—we, especially, who
      occupy the mid region of the cluster—the very locality near which,
      at least, must be situated this inconceivable central sun. The astronomer,
      perhaps, at this point, took refuge in the suggestion of non-luminosity;
      and here analogy was suddenly let fall. But even admitting the central orb
      non-luminous, how did he manage to explain its failure to be rendered
      visible by the incalculable host of glorious suns glaring in all
      directions about it? No doubt what he finally maintained was merely a
      centre of gravity common to all the revolving orbs—but here again
      analogy must have been let fall. Our system revolves, it is true, about a
      common centre of gravity, but it does this in connection with and in
      consequence of a material sun whose mass more than counterbalances the
      rest of the system. The mathematical circle is a curve composed of an
      infinity of straight lines; but this idea of the circle—this idea of
      it which, in regard to all earthly geometry, we consider as merely the
      mathematical, in contradistinction from the practical, idea—is, in
      sober fact, the practical conception which alone we have any right to
      entertain in respect to those Titanic circles with which we have to deal,
      at least in fancy, when we suppose our system, with its fellows, revolving
      about a point in the centre of the galaxy. Let the most vigorous of human
      imaginations but attempt to take a single step toward the comprehension of
      a circuit so unutterable! I would scarcely be paradoxical to say that a
      flash of lightning itself, travelling forever upon the circumference of
      this inconceivable circle, would still forever be travelling in a straight
      line. That the path of our sun along such a circumference—that the
      direction of our system in such an orbit—would, to any human
      perception, deviate in the slightest degree from a straight line even in a
      million of years, is a proposition not to be entertained; and yet these
      ancient astronomers were absolutely cajoled, it appears, into believing
      that a decisive curvature had become apparent during the brief period of
      their astronomical history—during the mere point—during the
      utter nothingness of two or three thousand years! How incomprehensible,
      that considerations such as this did not at once indicate to them the true
      state of affairs—that of the binary revolution of our sun and Alpha
      Lyrae around a common centre of gravity!
    </p>
<p>
      April 7.—Continued last night our astronomical amusements. Had a
      fine view of the five Neptunian asteroids, and watched with much interest
      the putting up of a huge impost on a couple of lintels in the new temple
      at Daphnis in the moon. It was amusing to think that creatures so
      diminutive as the lunarians, and bearing so little resemblance to
      humanity, yet evinced a mechanical ingenuity so much superior to our own.
      One finds it difficult, too, to conceive the vast masses which these
      people handle so easily, to be as light as our own reason tells us they
      actually are.
    </p>
<p>
      April 8.—Eureka! Pundit is in his glory. A balloon from Kanadaw
      spoke us to-day and threw on board several late papers; they contain some
      exceedingly curious information relative to Kanawdian or rather Amriccan
      antiquities. You know, I presume, that laborers have for some months been
      employed in preparing the ground for a new fountain at Paradise, the
      Emperor’s principal pleasure garden. Paradise, it appears, has been,
      literally speaking, an island time out of mind—that is to say, its
      northern boundary was always (as far back as any record extends) a
      rivulet, or rather a very narrow arm of the sea. This arm was gradually
      widened until it attained its present breadth—a mile. The whole
      length of the island is nine miles; the breadth varies materially. The
      entire area (so Pundit says) was, about eight hundred years ago, densely
      packed with houses, some of them twenty stories high; land (for some most
      unaccountable reason) being considered as especially precious just in this
      vicinity. The disastrous earthquake, however, of the year 2050, so totally
      uprooted and overwhelmed the town (for it was almost too large to be
      called a village) that the most indefatigable of our antiquarians have
      never yet been able to obtain from the site any sufficient data (in the
      shape of coins, medals or inscriptions) wherewith to build up even the
      ghost of a theory concerning the manners, customs, &amp;c., &amp;c., &amp;c.,
      of the aboriginal inhabitants. Nearly all that we have hitherto known of
      them is, that they were a portion of the Knickerbocker tribe of savages
      infesting the continent at its first discovery by Recorder Riker, a knight
      of the Golden Fleece. They were by no means uncivilized, however, but
      cultivated various arts and even sciences after a fashion of their own. It
      is related of them that they were acute in many respects, but were oddly
      afflicted with monomania for building what, in the ancient Amriccan, was
      denominated “churches”—a kind of pagoda instituted for
      the worship of two idols that went by the names of Wealth and Fashion. In
      the end, it is said, the island became, nine tenths of it, church. The
      women, too, it appears, were oddly deformed by a natural protuberance of
      the region just below the small of the back—although, most
      unaccountably, this deformity was looked upon altogether in the light of a
      beauty. One or two pictures of these singular women have in fact, been
      miraculously preserved. They look very odd, very—like something
      between a turkey-cock and a dromedary.
    </p>
<p>
      Well, these few details are nearly all that have descended to us
      respecting the ancient Knickerbockers. It seems, however, that while
      digging in the centre of the emperors garden, (which, you know, covers the
      whole island), some of the workmen unearthed a cubical and evidently
      chiseled block of granite, weighing several hundred pounds. It was in good
      preservation, having received, apparently, little injury from the
      convulsion which entombed it. On one of its surfaces was a marble slab
      with (only think of it!) an inscription—a legible inscription.
      Pundit is in ecstacies. Upon detaching the slab, a cavity appeared,
      containing a leaden box filled with various coins, a long scroll of names,
      several documents which appear to resemble newspapers, with other matters
      of intense interest to the antiquarian! There can be no doubt that all
      these are genuine Amriccan relics belonging to the tribe called
      Knickerbocker. The papers thrown on board our balloon are filled with
      fac-similes of the coins, MSS., typography, &amp;c., &amp;c. I copy for
      your amusement the Knickerbocker inscription on the marble slab:—
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
          This Corner Stone of a Monument to

                  The Memory of

                GEORGE WASHINGTON

          Was Laid With Appropriate Ceremonies

                    on the

             19th Day of October, 1847

          The anniversary of the surrender of

                 Lord Cornwallis

          to General Washington at Yorktown

                 A. D. 1781

            Under the Auspices of the

          Washington Monument Association of

                the city of New York
</pre>
<p>
      This, as I give it, is a verbatim translation done by Pundit himself, so
      there can be no mistake about it. From the few words thus preserved, we
      glean several important items of knowledge, not the least interesting of
      which is the fact that a thousand years ago actual monuments had fallen
      into disuse—as was all very proper—the people contenting
      themselves, as we do now, with a mere indication of the design to erect a
      monument at some future time; a corner-stone being cautiously laid by
      itself “solitary and alone” (excuse me for quoting the great
      American poet Benton!), as a guarantee of the magnanimous intention. We
      ascertain, too, very distinctly, from this admirable inscription, the how
      as well as the where and the what, of the great surrender in question. As
      to the where, it was Yorktown (wherever that was), and as to the what, it
      was General Cornwallis (no doubt some wealthy dealer in corn). He was
      surrendered. The inscription commemorates the surrender of—what?
      why, “of Lord Cornwallis.” The only question is what could the
      savages wish him surrendered for. But when we remember that these savages
      were undoubtedly cannibals, we are led to the conclusion that they
      intended him for sausage. As to the how of the surrender, no language can
      be more explicit. Lord Cornwallis was surrendered (for sausage) “under
      the auspices of the Washington Monument Association”—no doubt
      a charitable institution for the depositing of corner-stones.—But,
      Heaven bless me! what is the matter? Ah, I see—the balloon has
      collapsed, and we shall have a tumble into the sea. I have, therefore,
      only time enough to add that, from a hasty inspection of the fac-similes
      of newspapers, &amp;c., &amp;c., I find that the great men in those days
      among the Amriccans, were one John, a smith, and one Zacchary, a tailor.
    </p>
<p>
      Good-bye, until I see you again. Whether you ever get this letter or not
      is point of little importance, as I write altogether for my own amusement.
      I shall cork the MS. up in a bottle, however, and throw it into the sea.
    </p>
<p>
      Yours everlastingly,
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
       PUNDITA.
</pre>
<p>
<a name="2150link2H_4_0012">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      THE DUC DE L’OMELETTE.
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     And stepped at once into a cooler clime.—Cowper
</pre>
<p>
      KEATS fell by a criticism. Who was it died of “The Andromache”?
      {*1} Ignoble souls!—De L’Omelette perished of an ortolan. L’histoire
      en est br?ve. Assist me, Spirit of Apicius!
    </p>
<p>
      A golden cage bore the little winged wanderer, enamored, melting,
      indolent, to the Chauss?e D’Antin, from its home in far Peru. From
      its queenly possessor La Bellissima, to the Duc De L’Omelette, six
      peers of the empire conveyed the happy bird.
    </p>
<p>
      That night the Duc was to sup alone. In the privacy of his bureau he
      reclined languidly on that ottoman for which he sacrificed his loyalty in
      outbidding his king—the notorious ottoman of Cadet.
    </p>
<p>
      He buries his face in the pillow. The clock strikes! Unable to restrain
      his feelings, his Grace swallows an olive. At this moment the door gently
      opens to the sound of soft music, and lo! the most delicate of birds is
      before the most enamored of men! But what inexpressible dismay now
      overshadows the countenance of the Duc?—“Horreur!—chien!
      Baptiste!—l’oiseau! ah, bon Dieu! cet oiseau modeste que tu as
      d?shabill? de ses plumes, et que tu as servi sans papier!” It is
      superfluous to say more:—the Duc expired in a paroxysm of disgust.
    </p>
<p>
      “Ha! ha! ha!” said his Grace on the third day after his
      decease.
    </p>
<p>
      “He! he! he!” replied the Devil faintly, drawing himself up
      with an air of hauteur.
    </p>
<p>
      “Why, surely you are not serious,” retorted De L’Omelette.
      “I have sinned—c’est vrai—but, my good sir,
      consider!—you have no actual intention of putting such—such
      barbarous threats into execution.”
    </p>
<p>
      “No what?” said his majesty—“come, sir, strip!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Strip, indeed! very pretty i’ faith! no, sir, I shall not
      strip. Who are you, pray, that I, Duc De L’Omelette, Prince de
      Foie-Gras, just come of age, author of the ‘Mazurkiad,’ and
      Member of the Academy, should divest myself at your bidding of the
      sweetest pantaloons ever made by Bourdon, the daintiest robe-de-chambre
      ever put together by Rombert—to say nothing of the taking my hair
      out of paper—not to mention the trouble I should have in drawing off
      my gloves?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Who am I?—ah, true! I am Baal-Zebub, Prince of the Fly. I
      took thee, just now, from a rose-wood coffin inlaid with ivory. Thou wast
      curiously scented, and labelled as per invoice. Belial sent thee,—my
      Inspector of Cemeteries. The pantaloons, which thou sayest were made by
      Bourdon, are an excellent pair of linen drawers, and thy robe-de-chambre
      is a shroud of no scanty dimensions.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Sir!” replied the Duc, “I am not to be insulted with
      impunity!—Sir! I shall take the earliest opportunity of avenging
      this insult!—Sir! you shall hear from me! in the meantime au revoir!”—and
      the Duc was bowing himself out of the Satanic presence, when he was
      interrupted and brought back by a gentleman in waiting. Hereupon his Grace
      rubbed his eyes, yawned, shrugged his shoulders, reflected. Having become
      satisfied of his identity, he took a bird’s eye view of his
      whereabouts.
    </p>
<p>
      The apartment was superb. Even De L’Omelette pronounced it bien
      comme il faut. It was not its length nor its breadth,—but its height—ah,
      that was appalling!—There was no ceiling—certainly none—but
      a dense whirling mass of fiery-colored clouds. His Grace’s brain
      reeled as he glanced upward. From above, hung a chain of an unknown
      blood-red metal—its upper end lost, like the city of Boston, parmi
      les nues. From its nether extremity swung a large cresset. The Duc knew it
      to be a ruby; but from it there poured a light so intense, so still, so
      terrible, Persia never worshipped such—Gheber never imagined such—Mussulman
      never dreamed of such when, drugged with opium, he has tottered to a bed
      of poppies, his back to the flowers, and his face to the God Apollo. The
      Duc muttered a slight oath, decidedly approbatory.
    </p>
<p>
      The corners of the room were rounded into niches. Three of these were
      filled with statues of gigantic proportions. Their beauty was Grecian,
      their deformity Egyptian, their tout ensemble French. In the fourth niche
      the statue was veiled; it was not colossal. But then there was a taper
      ankle, a sandalled foot. De L’Omelette pressed his hand upon his
      heart, closed his eyes, raised them, and caught his Satanic Majesty—in
      a blush.
    </p>
<p>
      But the paintings!—Kupris! Astarte! Astoreth!—a thousand and
      the same! And Rafaelle has beheld them! Yes, Rafaelle has been here, for
      did he not paint the—? and was he not consequently damned? The
      paintings—the paintings! O luxury! O love!—who, gazing on
      those forbidden beauties, shall have eyes for the dainty devices of the
      golden frames that besprinkled, like stars, the hyacinth and the porphyry
      walls?
    </p>
<p>
      But the Duc’s heart is fainting within him. He is not, however, as
      you suppose, dizzy with magnificence, nor drunk with the ecstatic breath
      of those innumerable censers. C’est vrai que de toutes ces choses il
      a pense beaucoup—mais! The Duc De L’Omelette is
      terror-stricken; for, through the lurid vista which a single uncurtained
      window is affording, lo! gleams the most ghastly of all fires!
    </p>
<p>
      Le pauvre Duc! He could not help imagining that the glorious, the
      voluptuous, the never-dying melodies which pervaded that hall, as they
      passed filtered and transmuted through the alchemy of the enchanted
      window-panes, were the wailings and the howlings of the hopeless and the
      damned! And there, too!—there!—upon the ottoman!—who
      could he be?—he, the petitma?tre—no, the Deity—who sat
      as if carved in marble, et qui sourit, with his pale countenance, si
      am?rement?
    </p>
<p>
      Mais il faut agir—that is to say, a Frenchman never faints outright.
      Besides, his Grace hated a scene—De L’Omelette is himself
      again. There were some foils upon a table—some points also. The Duc
      s’?chapper. He measures two points, and, with a grace inimitable,
      offers his Majesty the choice. Horreur! his Majesty does not fence!
    </p>
<p>
      Mais il joue!—how happy a thought!—but his Grace had always an
      excellent memory. He had dipped in the “Diable” of Abb?
      Gualtier. Therein it is said “que le Diable n’ose pas refuser
      un jeu d’?carte.”
    </p>
<p>
      But the chances—the chances! True—desperate: but scarcely more
      desperate than the Duc. Besides, was he not in the secret?—had he
      not skimmed over P?re Le Brun?—was he not a member of the Club
      Vingt-un? “Si je perds,” said he, “je serai deux fois
      perdu—I shall be doubly dammed—voil? tout! (Here his Grace
      shrugged his shoulders.) Si je gagne, je reviendrai a mes ortolans—que
      les cartes soient pr?par?es!”
    </p>
<p>
      His Grace was all care, all attention—his Majesty all confidence. A
      spectator would have thought of Francis and Charles. His Grace thought of
      his game. His Majesty did not think; he shuffled. The Duc cut.
    </p>
<p>
      The cards were dealt. The trump is turned—it is—it is—the
      king! No—it was the queen. His Majesty cursed her masculine
      habiliments. De L’Omelette placed his hand upon his heart.
    </p>
<p>
      They play. The Duc counts. The hand is out. His Majesty counts heavily,
      smiles, and is taking wine. The Duc slips a card.
    </p>
<p>
      “C’est ? vous ? faire,” said his Majesty, cutting. His
      Grace bowed, dealt, and arose from the table en presentant le Roi.
    </p>
<p>
      His Majesty looked chagrined.
    </p>
<p>
      Had Alexander not been Alexander, he would have been Diogenes; and the Duc
      assured his antagonist in taking leave, “que s’il n’e?t
      ?t? De L’Omelette il n’aurait point d’objection d’?tre
      le Diable.”
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2150link2H_4_0013">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      THE OBLONG BOX.
    </h2>
<p>
      SOME years ago, I engaged passage from Charleston, S. C, to the city of
      New York, in the fine packet-ship “Independence,” Captain
      Hardy. We were to sail on the fifteenth of the month (June), weather
      permitting; and on the fourteenth, I went on board to arrange some matters
      in my state-room.
    </p>
<p>
      I found that we were to have a great many passengers, including a more
      than usual number of ladies. On the list were several of my acquaintances,
      and among other names, I was rejoiced to see that of Mr. Cornelius Wyatt,
      a young artist, for whom I entertained feelings of warm friendship. He had
      been with me a fellow-student at C— University, where we were very
      much together. He had the ordinary temperament of genius, and was a
      compound of misanthropy, sensibility, and enthusiasm. To these qualities
      he united the warmest and truest heart which ever beat in a human bosom.
    </p>
<p>
      I observed that his name was carded upon three state-rooms; and, upon
      again referring to the list of passengers, I found that he had engaged
      passage for himself, wife, and two sisters—his own. The state-rooms
      were sufficiently roomy, and each had two berths, one above the other.
      These berths, to be sure, were so exceedingly narrow as to be insufficient
      for more than one person; still, I could not comprehend why there were
      three state-rooms for these four persons. I was, just at that epoch, in
      one of those moody frames of mind which make a man abnormally inquisitive
      about trifles: and I confess, with shame, that I busied myself in a
      variety of ill-bred and preposterous conjectures about this matter of the
      supernumerary state-room. It was no business of mine, to be sure, but with
      none the less pertinacity did I occupy myself in attempts to resolve the
      enigma. At last I reached a conclusion which wrought in me great wonder
      why I had not arrived at it before. “It is a servant of course,”
      I said; “what a fool I am, not sooner to have thought of so obvious
      a solution!” And then I again repaired to the list—but here I
      saw distinctly that no servant was to come with the party, although, in
      fact, it had been the original design to bring one—for the words
      “and servant” had been first written and then overscored.
      “Oh, extra baggage, to be sure,” I now said to myself—“something
      he wishes not to be put in the hold—something to be kept under his
      own eye—ah, I have it—a painting or so—and this is what
      he has been bargaining about with Nicolino, the Italian Jew.” This
      idea satisfied me, and I dismissed my curiosity for the nonce.
    </p>
<p>
      Wyatt’s two sisters I knew very well, and most amiable and clever
      girls they were. His wife he had newly married, and I had never yet seen
      her. He had often talked about her in my presence, however, and in his
      usual style of enthusiasm. He described her as of surpassing beauty, wit,
      and accomplishment. I was, therefore, quite anxious to make her
      acquaintance.
    </p>
<p>
      On the day in which I visited the ship (the fourteenth), Wyatt and party
      were also to visit it—so the captain informed me—and I waited
      on board an hour longer than I had designed, in hope of being presented to
      the bride, but then an apology came. “Mrs. W. was a little
      indisposed, and would decline coming on board until to-morrow, at the hour
      of sailing.”
    </p>
<p>
      The morrow having arrived, I was going from my hotel to the wharf, when
      Captain Hardy met me and said that, “owing to circumstances”
      (a stupid but convenient phrase), “he rather thought the ‘Independence’
      would not sail for a day or two, and that when all was ready, he would
      send up and let me know.” This I thought strange, for there was a
      stiff southerly breeze; but as “the circumstances” were not
      forthcoming, although I pumped for them with much perseverance, I had
      nothing to do but to return home and digest my impatience at leisure.
    </p>
<p>
      I did not receive the expected message from the captain for nearly a week.
      It came at length, however, and I immediately went on board. The ship was
      crowded with passengers, and every thing was in the bustle attendant upon
      making sail. Wyatt’s party arrived in about ten minutes after
      myself. There were the two sisters, the bride, and the artist—the
      latter in one of his customary fits of moody misanthropy. I was too well
      used to these, however, to pay them any special attention. He did not even
      introduce me to his wife—this courtesy devolving, per force, upon
      his sister Marian—a very sweet and intelligent girl, who, in a few
      hurried words, made us acquainted.
    </p>
<p>
      Mrs. Wyatt had been closely veiled; and when she raised her veil, in
      acknowledging my bow, I confess that I was very profoundly astonished. I
      should have been much more so, however, had not long experience advised me
      not to trust, with too implicit a reliance, the enthusiastic descriptions
      of my friend, the artist, when indulging in comments upon the loveliness
      of woman. When beauty was the theme, I well knew with what facility he
      soared into the regions of the purely ideal.
    </p>
<p>
      The truth is, I could not help regarding Mrs. Wyatt as a decidedly
      plain-looking woman. If not positively ugly, she was not, I think, very
      far from it. She was dressed, however, in exquisite taste—and then I
      had no doubt that she had captivated my friend’s heart by the more
      enduring graces of the intellect and soul. She said very few words, and
      passed at once into her state-room with Mr. W.
    </p>
<p>
      My old inquisitiveness now returned. There was no servant—that was a
      settled point. I looked, therefore, for the extra baggage. After some
      delay, a cart arrived at the wharf, with an oblong pine box, which was
      every thing that seemed to be expected. Immediately upon its arrival we
      made sail, and in a short time were safely over the bar and standing out
      to sea.
    </p>
<p>
      The box in question was, as I say, oblong. It was about six feet in length
      by two and a half in breadth; I observed it attentively, and like to be
      precise. Now this shape was peculiar; and no sooner had I seen it, than I
      took credit to myself for the accuracy of my guessing. I had reached the
      conclusion, it will be remembered, that the extra baggage of my friend,
      the artist, would prove to be pictures, or at least a picture; for I knew
      he had been for several weeks in conference with Nicolino:—and now
      here was a box, which, from its shape, could possibly contain nothing in
      the world but a copy of Leonardo’s “Last Supper;” and a
      copy of this very “Last Supper,” done by Rubini the younger,
      at Florence, I had known, for some time, to be in the possession of
      Nicolino. This point, therefore, I considered as sufficiently settled. I
      chuckled excessively when I thought of my acumen. It was the first time I
      had ever known Wyatt to keep from me any of his artistical secrets; but
      here he evidently intended to steal a march upon me, and smuggle a fine
      picture to New York, under my very nose; expecting me to know nothing of
      the matter. I resolved to quiz him well, now and hereafter.
    </p>
<p>
      One thing, however, annoyed me not a little. The box did not go into the
      extra state-room. It was deposited in Wyatt’s own; and there, too,
      it remained, occupying very nearly the whole of the floor—no doubt
      to the exceeding discomfort of the artist and his wife;—this the
      more especially as the tar or paint with which it was lettered in
      sprawling capitals, emitted a strong, disagreeable, and, to my fancy, a
      peculiarly disgusting odor. On the lid were painted the words—“Mrs.
      Adelaide Curtis, Albany, New York. Charge of Cornelius Wyatt, Esq. This
      side up. To be handled with care.”
    </p>
<p>
      Now, I was aware that Mrs. Adelaide Curtis, of Albany, was the artist’s
      wife’s mother,—but then I looked upon the whole address as a
      mystification, intended especially for myself. I made up my mind, of
      course, that the box and contents would never get farther north than the
      studio of my misanthropic friend, in Chambers Street, New York.
    </p>
<p>
      For the first three or four days we had fine weather, although the wind
      was dead ahead; having chopped round to the northward, immediately upon
      our losing sight of the coast. The passengers were, consequently, in high
      spirits and disposed to be social. I must except, however, Wyatt and his
      sisters, who behaved stiffly, and, I could not help thinking,
      uncourteously to the rest of the party. Wyatt’s conduct I did not so
      much regard. He was gloomy, even beyond his usual habit—in fact he
      was morose—but in him I was prepared for eccentricity. For the
      sisters, however, I could make no excuse. They secluded themselves in
      their staterooms during the greater part of the passage, and absolutely
      refused, although I repeatedly urged them, to hold communication with any
      person on board.
    </p>
<p>
      Mrs. Wyatt herself was far more agreeable. That is to say, she was chatty;
      and to be chatty is no slight recommendation at sea. She became
      excessively intimate with most of the ladies; and, to my profound
      astonishment, evinced no equivocal disposition to coquet with the men. She
      amused us all very much. I say “amused”—and scarcely
      know how to explain myself. The truth is, I soon found that Mrs. W. was
      far oftener laughed at than with. The gentlemen said little about her; but
      the ladies, in a little while, pronounced her “a good-hearted thing,
      rather indifferent looking, totally uneducated, and decidedly vulgar.”
      The great wonder was, how Wyatt had been entrapped into such a match.
      Wealth was the general solution—but this I knew to be no solution at
      all; for Wyatt had told me that she neither brought him a dollar nor had
      any expectations from any source whatever. “He had married,”
      he said, “for love, and for love only; and his bride was far more
      than worthy of his love.” When I thought of these expressions, on
      the part of my friend, I confess that I felt indescribably puzzled. Could
      it be possible that he was taking leave of his senses? What else could I
      think? He, so refined, so intellectual, so fastidious, with so exquisite a
      perception of the faulty, and so keen an appreciation of the beautiful! To
      be sure, the lady seemed especially fond of him—particularly so in
      his absence—when she made herself ridiculous by frequent quotations
      of what had been said by her “beloved husband, Mr. Wyatt.” The
      word “husband” seemed forever—to use one of her own
      delicate expressions—forever “on the tip of her tongue.”
      In the meantime, it was observed by all on board, that he avoided her in
      the most pointed manner, and, for the most part, shut himself up alone in
      his state-room, where, in fact, he might have been said to live
      altogether, leaving his wife at full liberty to amuse herself as she
      thought best, in the public society of the main cabin.
    </p>
<p>
      My conclusion, from what I saw and heard, was, that, the artist, by some
      unaccountable freak of fate, or perhaps in some fit of enthusiastic and
      fanciful passion, had been induced to unite himself with a person
      altogether beneath him, and that the natural result, entire and speedy
      disgust, had ensued. I pitied him from the bottom of my heart—but
      could not, for that reason, quite forgive his incommunicativeness in the
      matter of the “Last Supper.” For this I resolved to have my
      revenge.
    </p>
<p>
      One day he came upon deck, and, taking his arm as had been my wont, I
      sauntered with him backward and forward. His gloom, however (which I
      considered quite natural under the circumstances), seemed entirely
      unabated. He said little, and that moodily, and with evident effort. I
      ventured a jest or two, and he made a sickening attempt at a smile. Poor
      fellow!—as I thought of his wife, I wondered that he could have
      heart to put on even the semblance of mirth. I determined to commence a
      series of covert insinuations, or innuendoes, about the oblong box—just
      to let him perceive, gradually, that I was not altogether the butt, or
      victim, of his little bit of pleasant mystification. My first observation
      was by way of opening a masked battery. I said something about the “peculiar
      shape of that box-,” and, as I spoke the words, I smiled knowingly,
      winked, and touched him gently with my forefinger in the ribs.
    </p>
<p>
      The manner in which Wyatt received this harmless pleasantry convinced me,
      at once, that he was mad. At first he stared at me as if he found it
      impossible to comprehend the witticism of my remark; but as its point
      seemed slowly to make its way into his brain, his eyes, in the same
      proportion, seemed protruding from their sockets. Then he grew very red—then
      hideously pale—then, as if highly amused with what I had insinuated,
      he began a loud and boisterous laugh, which, to my astonishment, he kept
      up, with gradually increasing vigor, for ten minutes or more. In
      conclusion, he fell flat and heavily upon the deck. When I ran to uplift
      him, to all appearance he was dead.
    </p>
<p>
      I called assistance, and, with much difficulty, we brought him to himself.
      Upon reviving he spoke incoherently for some time. At length we bled him
      and put him to bed. The next morning he was quite recovered, so far as
      regarded his mere bodily health. Of his mind I say nothing, of course. I
      avoided him during the rest of the passage, by advice of the captain, who
      seemed to coincide with me altogether in my views of his insanity, but
      cautioned me to say nothing on this head to any person on board.
    </p>
<p>
      Several circumstances occurred immediately after this fit of Wyatt which
      contributed to heighten the curiosity with which I was already possessed.
      Among other things, this: I had been nervous—drank too much strong
      green tea, and slept ill at night—in fact, for two nights I could
      not be properly said to sleep at all. Now, my state-room opened into the
      main cabin, or dining-room, as did those of all the single men on board.
      Wyatt’s three rooms were in the after-cabin, which was separated
      from the main one by a slight sliding door, never locked even at night. As
      we were almost constantly on a wind, and the breeze was not a little
      stiff, the ship heeled to leeward very considerably; and whenever her
      starboard side was to leeward, the sliding door between the cabins slid
      open, and so remained, nobody taking the trouble to get up and shut it.
      But my berth was in such a position, that when my own state-room door was
      open, as well as the sliding door in question (and my own door was always
      open on account of the heat,) I could see into the after-cabin quite
      distinctly, and just at that portion of it, too, where were situated the
      state-rooms of Mr. Wyatt. Well, during two nights (not consecutive) while
      I lay awake, I clearly saw Mrs. W., about eleven o’clock upon each
      night, steal cautiously from the state-room of Mr. W., and enter the extra
      room, where she remained until daybreak, when she was called by her
      husband and went back. That they were virtually separated was clear. They
      had separate apartments—no doubt in contemplation of a more
      permanent divorce; and here, after all I thought was the mystery of the
      extra state-room.
    </p>
<p>
      There was another circumstance, too, which interested me much. During the
      two wakeful nights in question, and immediately after the disappearance of
      Mrs. Wyatt into the extra state-room, I was attracted by certain singular
      cautious, subdued noises in that of her husband. After listening to them
      for some time, with thoughtful attention, I at length succeeded perfectly
      in translating their import. They were sounds occasioned by the artist in
      prying open the oblong box, by means of a chisel and mallet—the
      latter being apparently muffled, or deadened, by some soft woollen or
      cotton substance in which its head was enveloped.
    </p>
<p>
      In this manner I fancied I could distinguish the precise moment when he
      fairly disengaged the lid—also, that I could determine when he
      removed it altogether, and when he deposited it upon the lower berth in
      his room; this latter point I knew, for example, by certain slight taps
      which the lid made in striking against the wooden edges of the berth, as
      he endeavored to lay it down very gently—there being no room for it
      on the floor. After this there was a dead stillness, and I heard nothing
      more, upon either occasion, until nearly daybreak; unless, perhaps, I may
      mention a low sobbing, or murmuring sound, so very much suppressed as to
      be nearly inaudible—if, indeed, the whole of this latter noise were
      not rather produced by my own imagination. I say it seemed to resemble
      sobbing or sighing—but, of course, it could not have been either. I
      rather think it was a ringing in my own ears. Mr. Wyatt, no doubt,
      according to custom, was merely giving the rein to one of his hobbies—indulging
      in one of his fits of artistic enthusiasm. He had opened his oblong box,
      in order to feast his eyes on the pictorial treasure within. There was
      nothing in this, however, to make him sob. I repeat, therefore, that it
      must have been simply a freak of my own fancy, distempered by good Captain
      Hardy’s green tea. Just before dawn, on each of the two nights of
      which I speak, I distinctly heard Mr. Wyatt replace the lid upon the
      oblong box, and force the nails into their old places by means of the
      muffled mallet. Having done this, he issued from his state-room, fully
      dressed, and proceeded to call Mrs. W. from hers.
    </p>
<p>
      We had been at sea seven days, and were now off Cape Hatteras, when there
      came a tremendously heavy blow from the southwest. We were, in a measure,
      prepared for it, however, as the weather had been holding out threats for
      some time. Every thing was made snug, alow and aloft; and as the wind
      steadily freshened, we lay to, at length, under spanker and foretopsail,
      both double-reefed.
    </p>
<p>
      In this trim we rode safely enough for forty-eight hours—the ship
      proving herself an excellent sea-boat in many respects, and shipping no
      water of any consequence. At the end of this period, however, the gale had
      freshened into a hurricane, and our after—sail split into ribbons,
      bringing us so much in the trough of the water that we shipped several
      prodigious seas, one immediately after the other. By this accident we lost
      three men overboard with the caboose, and nearly the whole of the larboard
      bulwarks. Scarcely had we recovered our senses, before the foretopsail
      went into shreds, when we got up a storm stay—sail and with this did
      pretty well for some hours, the ship heading the sea much more steadily
      than before.
    </p>
<p>
      The gale still held on, however, and we saw no signs of its abating. The
      rigging was found to be ill-fitted, and greatly strained; and on the third
      day of the blow, about five in the afternoon, our mizzen-mast, in a heavy
      lurch to windward, went by the board. For an hour or more, we tried in
      vain to get rid of it, on account of the prodigious rolling of the ship;
      and, before we had succeeded, the carpenter came aft and announced four
      feet of water in the hold. To add to our dilemma, we found the pumps
      choked and nearly useless.
    </p>
<p>
      All was now confusion and despair—but an effort was made to lighten
      the ship by throwing overboard as much of her cargo as could be reached,
      and by cutting away the two masts that remained. This we at last
      accomplished—but we were still unable to do any thing at the pumps;
      and, in the meantime, the leak gained on us very fast.
    </p>
<p>
      At sundown, the gale had sensibly diminished in violence, and as the sea
      went down with it, we still entertained faint hopes of saving ourselves in
      the boats. At eight P. M., the clouds broke away to windward, and we had
      the advantage of a full moon—a piece of good fortune which served
      wonderfully to cheer our drooping spirits.
    </p>
<p>
      After incredible labor we succeeded, at length, in getting the longboat
      over the side without material accident, and into this we crowded the
      whole of the crew and most of the passengers. This party made off
      immediately, and, after undergoing much suffering, finally arrived, in
      safety, at Ocracoke Inlet, on the third day after the wreck.
    </p>
<p>
      Fourteen passengers, with the captain, remained on board, resolving to
      trust their fortunes to the jolly-boat at the stern. We lowered it without
      difficulty, although it was only by a miracle that we prevented it from
      swamping as it touched the water. It contained, when afloat, the captain
      and his wife, Mr. Wyatt and party, a Mexican officer, wife, four children,
      and myself, with a negro valet.
    </p>
<p>
      We had no room, of course, for any thing except a few positively necessary
      instruments, some provisions, and the clothes upon our backs. No one had
      thought of even attempting to save any thing more. What must have been the
      astonishment of all, then, when having proceeded a few fathoms from the
      ship, Mr. Wyatt stood up in the stern-sheets, and coolly demanded of
      Captain Hardy that the boat should be put back for the purpose of taking
      in his oblong box!
    </p>
<p>
      “Sit down, Mr. Wyatt,” replied the captain, somewhat sternly,
      “you will capsize us if you do not sit quite still. Our gunwhale is
      almost in the water now.”
    </p>
<p>
      “The box!” vociferated Mr. Wyatt, still standing—“the
      box, I say! Captain Hardy, you cannot, you will not refuse me. Its weight
      will be but a trifle—it is nothing—mere nothing. By the mother
      who bore you—for the love of Heaven—by your hope of salvation,
      I implore you to put back for the box!”
    </p>
<p>
      The captain, for a moment, seemed touched by the earnest appeal of the
      artist, but he regained his stern composure, and merely said:
    </p>
<p>
      “Mr. Wyatt, you are mad. I cannot listen to you. Sit down, I say, or
      you will swamp the boat. Stay—hold him—seize him!—he is
      about to spring overboard! There—I knew it—he is over!”
    </p>
<p>
      As the captain said this, Mr. Wyatt, in fact, sprang from the boat, and,
      as we were yet in the lee of the wreck, succeeded, by almost superhuman
      exertion, in getting hold of a rope which hung from the fore-chains. In
      another moment he was on board, and rushing frantically down into the
      cabin.
    </p>
<p>
      In the meantime, we had been swept astern of the ship, and being quite out
      of her lee, were at the mercy of the tremendous sea which was still
      running. We made a determined effort to put back, but our little boat was
      like a feather in the breath of the tempest. We saw at a glance that the
      doom of the unfortunate artist was sealed.
    </p>
<p>
      As our distance from the wreck rapidly increased, the madman (for as such
      only could we regard him) was seen to emerge from the companion—way,
      up which by dint of strength that appeared gigantic, he dragged, bodily,
      the oblong box. While we gazed in the extremity of astonishment, he
      passed, rapidly, several turns of a three-inch rope, first around the box
      and then around his body. In another instant both body and box were in the
      sea—disappearing suddenly, at once and forever.
    </p>
<p>
      We lingered awhile sadly upon our oars, with our eyes riveted upon the
      spot. At length we pulled away. The silence remained unbroken for an hour.
      Finally, I hazarded a remark.
    </p>
<p>
      “Did you observe, captain, how suddenly they sank? Was not that an
      exceedingly singular thing? I confess that I entertained some feeble hope
      of his final deliverance, when I saw him lash himself to the box, and
      commit himself to the sea.”
    </p>
<p>
      “They sank as a matter of course,” replied the captain,
      “and that like a shot. They will soon rise again, however—but
      not till the salt melts.”
    </p>
<p>
      “The salt!” I ejaculated.
    </p>
<p>
      “Hush!” said the captain, pointing to the wife and sisters of
      the deceased. “We must talk of these things at some more appropriate
      time.”
    </p>
<p>
      We suffered much, and made a narrow escape, but fortune befriended us, as
      well as our mates in the long-boat. We landed, in fine, more dead than
      alive, after four days of intense distress, upon the beach opposite
      Roanoke Island. We remained here a week, were not ill-treated by the
      wreckers, and at length obtained a passage to New York.
    </p>
<p>
      About a month after the loss of the “Independence,” I happened
      to meet Captain Hardy in Broadway. Our conversation turned, naturally,
      upon the disaster, and especially upon the sad fate of poor Wyatt. I thus
      learned the following particulars.
    </p>
<p>
      The artist had engaged passage for himself, wife, two sisters and a
      servant. His wife was, indeed, as she had been represented, a most lovely,
      and most accomplished woman. On the morning of the fourteenth of June (the
      day in which I first visited the ship), the lady suddenly sickened and
      died. The young husband was frantic with grief—but circumstances
      imperatively forbade the deferring his voyage to New York. It was
      necessary to take to her mother the corpse of his adored wife, and, on the
      other hand, the universal prejudice which would prevent his doing so
      openly was well known. Nine-tenths of the passengers would have abandoned
      the ship rather than take passage with a dead body.
    </p>
<p>
      In this dilemma, Captain Hardy arranged that the corpse, being first
      partially embalmed, and packed, with a large quantity of salt, in a box of
      suitable dimensions, should be conveyed on board as merchandise. Nothing
      was to be said of the lady’s decease; and, as it was well understood
      that Mr. Wyatt had engaged passage for his wife, it became necessary that
      some person should personate her during the voyage. This the deceased lady’s-maid
      was easily prevailed on to do. The extra state-room, originally engaged
      for this girl during her mistress’ life, was now merely retained. In
      this state-room the pseudo-wife, slept, of course, every night. In the
      daytime she performed, to the best of her ability, the part of her
      mistress—whose person, it had been carefully ascertained, was
      unknown to any of the passengers on board.
    </p>
<p>
      My own mistake arose, naturally enough, through too careless, too
      inquisitive, and too impulsive a temperament. But of late, it is a rare
      thing that I sleep soundly at night. There is a countenance which haunts
      me, turn as I will. There is an hysterical laugh which will forever ring
      within my ears.
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2150link2H_4_0014">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      LOSS OF BREATH
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     O Breathe not, etc.      —Moore’s Melodies
</pre>
<p>
      THE MOST notorious ill-fortune must in the end yield to the untiring
      courage of philosophy—as the most stubborn city to the ceaseless
      vigilance of an enemy. Shalmanezer, as we have it in holy writings, lay
      three years before Samaria; yet it fell. Sardanapalus—see Diodorus—maintained
      himself seven in Nineveh; but to no purpose. Troy expired at the close of
      the second lustrum; and Azoth, as Aristaeus declares upon his honour as a
      gentleman, opened at last her gates to Psammetichus, after having barred
      them for the fifth part of a century....
    </p>
<p>
      “Thou wretch!—thou vixen!—thou shrew!” said I to
      my wife on the morning after our wedding; “thou witch!—thou
      hag!—thou whippersnapper—thou sink of iniquity!—thou
      fiery-faced quintessence of all that is abominable!—thou—thou-”
      here standing upon tiptoe, seizing her by the throat, and placing my mouth
      close to her ear, I was preparing to launch forth a new and more decided
      epithet of opprobrium, which should not fail, if ejaculated, to convince
      her of her insignificance, when to my extreme horror and astonishment I
      discovered that I had lost my breath.
    </p>
<p>
      The phrases “I am out of breath,” “I have lost my
      breath,” etc., are often enough repeated in common conversation; but
      it had never occurred to me that the terrible accident of which I speak
      could bona fide and actually happen! Imagine—that is if you have a
      fanciful turn—imagine, I say, my wonder—my consternation—my
      despair!
    </p>
<p>
      There is a good genius, however, which has never entirely deserted me. In
      my most ungovernable moods I still retain a sense of propriety, et le
      chemin des passions me conduit—as Lord Edouard in the “Julie”
      says it did him—a la philosophie veritable.
    </p>
<p>
      Although I could not at first precisely ascertain to what degree the
      occurrence had affected me, I determined at all events to conceal the
      matter from my wife, until further experience should discover to me the
      extent of this my unheard of calamity. Altering my countenance, therefore,
      in a moment, from its bepuffed and distorted appearance, to an expression
      of arch and coquettish benignity, I gave my lady a pat on the one cheek,
      and a kiss on the other, and without saying one syllable (Furies! I could
      not), left her astonished at my drollery, as I pirouetted out of the room
      in a Pas de Zephyr.
    </p>
<p>
      Behold me then safely ensconced in my private boudoir, a fearful instance
      of the ill consequences attending upon irascibility—alive, with the
      qualifications of the dead—dead, with the propensities of the living—an
      anomaly on the face of the earth—being very calm, yet breathless.
    </p>
<p>
      Yes! breathless. I am serious in asserting that my breath was entirely
      gone. I could not have stirred with it a feather if my life had been at
      issue, or sullied even the delicacy of a mirror. Hard fate!—yet
      there was some alleviation to the first overwhelming paroxysm of my
      sorrow. I found, upon trial, that the powers of utterance which, upon my
      inability to proceed in the conversation with my wife, I then concluded to
      be totally destroyed, were in fact only partially impeded, and I
      discovered that had I, at that interesting crisis, dropped my voice to a
      singularly deep guttural, I might still have continued to her the
      communication of my sentiments; this pitch of voice (the guttural)
      depending, I find, not upon the current of the breath, but upon a certain
      spasmodic action of the muscles of the throat.
    </p>
<p>
      Throwing myself upon a chair, I remained for some time absorbed in
      meditation. My reflections, be sure, were of no consolatory kind. A
      thousand vague and lachrymatory fancies took possession of my soul—and
      even the idea of suicide flitted across my brain; but it is a trait in the
      perversity of human nature to reject the obvious and the ready, for the
      far-distant and equivocal. Thus I shuddered at self-murder as the most
      decided of atrocities while the tabby cat purred strenuously upon the rug,
      and the very water dog wheezed assiduously under the table, each taking to
      itself much merit for the strength of its lungs, and all obviously done in
      derision of my own pulmonary incapacity.
    </p>
<p>
      Oppressed with a tumult of vague hopes and fears, I at length heard the
      footsteps of my wife descending the staircase. Being now assured of her
      absence, I returned with a palpitating heart to the scene of my disaster.
    </p>
<p>
      Carefully locking the door on the inside, I commenced a vigorous search.
      It was possible, I thought, that, concealed in some obscure corner, or
      lurking in some closet or drawer, might be found the lost object of my
      inquiry. It might have a vapory—it might even have a tangible form.
      Most philosophers, upon many points of philosophy, are still very
      unphilosophical. William Godwin, however, says in his “Mandeville,”
      that “invisible things are the only realities,” and this, all
      will allow, is a case in point. I would have the judicious reader pause
      before accusing such asseverations of an undue quantum of absurdity.
      Anaxagoras, it will be remembered, maintained that snow is black, and this
      I have since found to be the case.
    </p>
<p>
      Long and earnestly did I continue the investigation: but the contemptible
      reward of my industry and perseverance proved to be only a set of false
      teeth, two pair of hips, an eye, and a bundle of billets-doux from Mr.
      Windenough to my wife. I might as well here observe that this confirmation
      of my lady’s partiality for Mr. W. occasioned me little uneasiness.
      That Mrs. Lackobreath should admire anything so dissimilar to myself was a
      natural and necessary evil. I am, it is well known, of a robust and
      corpulent appearance, and at the same time somewhat diminutive in stature.
      What wonder, then, that the lath-like tenuity of my acquaintance, and his
      altitude, which has grown into a proverb, should have met with all due
      estimation in the eyes of Mrs. Lackobreath. But to return.
    </p>
<p>
      My exertions, as I have before said, proved fruitless. Closet after closet—drawer
      after drawer—corner after corner—were scrutinized to no
      purpose. At one time, however, I thought myself sure of my prize, having,
      in rummaging a dressing-case, accidentally demolished a bottle of
      Grandjean’s Oil of Archangels—which, as an agreeable perfume,
      I here take the liberty of recommending.
    </p>
<p>
      With a heavy heart I returned to my boudoir—there to ponder upon
      some method of eluding my wife’s penetration, until I could make
      arrangements prior to my leaving the country, for to this I had already
      made up my mind. In a foreign climate, being unknown, I might, with some
      probability of success, endeavor to conceal my unhappy calamity—a
      calamity calculated, even more than beggary, to estrange the affections of
      the multitude, and to draw down upon the wretch the well-merited
      indignation of the virtuous and the happy. I was not long in hesitation.
      Being naturally quick, I committed to memory the entire tragedy of “Metamora.”
      I had the good fortune to recollect that in the accentuation of this
      drama, or at least of such portion of it as is allotted to the hero, the
      tones of voice in which I found myself deficient were altogether
      unnecessary, and the deep guttural was expected to reign monotonously
      throughout.
    </p>
<p>
      I practised for some time by the borders of a well frequented marsh;—herein,
      however, having no reference to a similar proceeding of Demosthenes, but
      from a design peculiarly and conscientiously my own. Thus armed at all
      points, I determined to make my wife believe that I was suddenly smitten
      with a passion for the stage. In this, I succeeded to a miracle; and to
      every question or suggestion found myself at liberty to reply in my most
      frog-like and sepulchral tones with some passage from the tragedy—any
      portion of which, as I soon took great pleasure in observing, would apply
      equally well to any particular subject. It is not to be supposed, however,
      that in the delivery of such passages I was found at all deficient in the
      looking asquint—the showing my teeth—the working my knees—the
      shuffling my feet—or in any of those unmentionable graces which are
      now justly considered the characteristics of a popular performer. To be
      sure they spoke of confining me in a strait-jacket—but, good God!
      they never suspected me of having lost my breath.
    </p>
<p>
      Having at length put my affairs in order, I took my seat very early one
      morning in the mail stage for—, giving it to be understood, among my
      acquaintances, that business of the last importance required my immediate
      personal attendance in that city.
    </p>
<p>
      The coach was crammed to repletion; but in the uncertain twilight the
      features of my companions could not be distinguished. Without making any
      effectual resistance, I suffered myself to be placed between two gentlemen
      of colossal dimensions; while a third, of a size larger, requesting pardon
      for the liberty he was about to take, threw himself upon my body at full
      length, and falling asleep in an instant, drowned all my guttural
      ejaculations for relief, in a snore which would have put to blush the
      roarings of the bull of Phalaris. Happily the state of my respiratory
      faculties rendered suffocation an accident entirely out of the question.
    </p>
<p>
      As, however, the day broke more distinctly in our approach to the
      outskirts of the city, my tormentor, arising and adjusting his
      shirt-collar, thanked me in a very friendly manner for my civility. Seeing
      that I remained motionless (all my limbs were dislocated and my head
      twisted on one side), his apprehensions began to be excited; and arousing
      the rest of the passengers, he communicated, in a very decided manner, his
      opinion that a dead man had been palmed upon them during the night for a
      living and responsible fellow-traveller; here giving me a thump on the
      right eye, by way of demonstrating the truth of his suggestion.
    </p>
<p>
      Hereupon all, one after another (there were nine in company), believed it
      their duty to pull me by the ear. A young practising physician, too,
      having applied a pocket-mirror to my mouth, and found me without breath,
      the assertion of my persecutor was pronounced a true bill; and the whole
      party expressed a determination to endure tamely no such impositions for
      the future, and to proceed no farther with any such carcasses for the
      present.
    </p>
<p>
      I was here, accordingly, thrown out at the sign of the “Crow”
      (by which tavern the coach happened to be passing), without meeting with
      any farther accident than the breaking of both my arms, under the left
      hind wheel of the vehicle. I must besides do the driver the justice to
      state that he did not forget to throw after me the largest of my trunks,
      which, unfortunately falling on my head, fractured my skull in a manner at
      once interesting and extraordinary.
    </p>
<p>
      The landlord of the “Crow,” who is a hospitable man, finding
      that my trunk contained sufficient to indemnify him for any little trouble
      he might take in my behalf, sent forthwith for a surgeon of his
      acquaintance, and delivered me to his care with a bill and receipt for ten
      dollars.
    </p>
<p>
      The purchaser took me to his apartments and commenced operations
      immediately. Having cut off my ears, however, he discovered signs of
      animation. He now rang the bell, and sent for a neighboring apothecary
      with whom to consult in the emergency. In case of his suspicions with
      regard to my existence proving ultimately correct, he, in the meantime,
      made an incision in my stomach, and removed several of my viscera for
      private dissection.
    </p>
<p>
      The apothecary had an idea that I was actually dead. This idea I
      endeavored to confute, kicking and plunging with all my might, and making
      the most furious contortions—for the operations of the surgeon had,
      in a measure, restored me to the possession of my faculties. All, however,
      was attributed to the effects of a new galvanic battery, wherewith the
      apothecary, who is really a man of information, performed several curious
      experiments, in which, from my personal share in their fulfillment, I
      could not help feeling deeply interested. It was a course of mortification
      to me, nevertheless, that although I made several attempts at
      conversation, my powers of speech were so entirely in abeyance, that I
      could not even open my mouth; much less, then, make reply to some
      ingenious but fanciful theories of which, under other circumstances, my
      minute acquaintance with the Hippocratian pathology would have afforded me
      a ready confutation.
    </p>
<p>
      Not being able to arrive at a conclusion, the practitioners remanded me
      for farther examination. I was taken up into a garret; and the surgeon’s
      lady having accommodated me with drawers and stockings, the surgeon
      himself fastened my hands, and tied up my jaws with a pocket-handkerchief—then
      bolted the door on the outside as he hurried to his dinner, leaving me
      alone to silence and to meditation.
    </p>
<p>
      I now discovered to my extreme delight that I could have spoken had not my
      mouth been tied up with the pocket-handkerchief. Consoling myself with
      this reflection, I was mentally repeating some passages of the “Omnipresence
      of the Deity,” as is my custom before resigning myself to sleep,
      when two cats, of a greedy and vituperative turn, entering at a hole in
      the wall, leaped up with a flourish a la Catalani, and alighting opposite
      one another on my visage, betook themselves to indecorous contention for
      the paltry consideration of my nose.
    </p>
<p>
      But, as the loss of his ears proved the means of elevating to the throne
      of Cyrus, the Magian or Mige-Gush of Persia, and as the cutting off his
      nose gave Zopyrus possession of Babylon, so the loss of a few ounces of my
      countenance proved the salvation of my body. Aroused by the pain, and
      burning with indignation, I burst, at a single effort, the fastenings and
      the bandage. Stalking across the room I cast a glance of contempt at the
      belligerents, and throwing open the sash to their extreme horror and
      disappointment, precipitated myself, very dexterously, from the window.
      The mail-robber W---, to whom I bore a singular resemblance, was at this
      moment passing from the city jail to the scaffold erected for his
      execution in the suburbs. His extreme infirmity and long continued ill
      health had obtained him the privilege of remaining unmanacled; and habited
      in his gallows costume—one very similar to my own,—he lay at
      full length in the bottom of the hangman’s cart (which happened to
      be under the windows of the surgeon at the moment of my precipitation)
      without any other guard than the driver, who was asleep, and two recruits
      of the sixth infantry, who were drunk.
    </p>
<p>
      As ill-luck would have it, I alit upon my feet within the vehicle.
      immediately, he bolted out behind, and turning down an alley, was out of
      sight in the twinkling of an eye. The recruits, aroused by the bustle,
      could not exactly comprehend the merits of the transaction. Seeing,
      however, a man, the precise counterpart of the felon, standing upright in
      the cart before their eyes, they were of (so they expressed themselves,)
      and, having communicated this opinion to one another, they took each a
      dram, and then knocked me down with the butt-ends of their muskets.
    </p>
<p>
      It was not long ere we arrived at the place of destination. Of course
      nothing could be said in my defence. Hanging was my inevitable fate. I
      resigned myself thereto with a feeling half stupid, half acrimonious.
      Being little of a cynic, I had all the sentiments of a dog. The hangman,
      however, adjusted the noose about my neck. The drop fell.
    </p>
<p>
      I forbear to depict my sensations upon the gallows; although here,
      undoubtedly, I could speak to the point, and it is a topic upon which
      nothing has been well said. In fact, to write upon such a theme it is
      necessary to have been hanged. Every author should confine himself to
      matters of experience. Thus Mark Antony composed a treatise upon getting
      drunk.
    </p>
<p>
      I may just mention, however, that die I did not. My body was, but I had no
      breath to be, suspended; and but for the knot under my left ear (which had
      the feel of a military stock) I dare say that I should have experienced
      very little inconvenience. As for the jerk given to my neck upon the
      falling of the drop, it merely proved a corrective to the twist afforded
      me by the fat gentleman in the coach.
    </p>
<p>
      For good reasons, however, I did my best to give the crowd the worth of
      their trouble. My convulsions were said to be extraordinary. My spasms it
      would have been difficult to beat. The populace encored. Several gentlemen
      swooned; and a multitude of ladies were carried home in hysterics. Pinxit
      availed himself of the opportunity to retouch, from a sketch taken upon
      the spot, his admirable painting of the “Marsyas flayed alive.”
    </p>
<p>
      When I had afforded sufficient amusement, it was thought proper to remove
      my body from the gallows;—this the more especially as the real
      culprit had in the meantime been retaken and recognized, a fact which I
      was so unlucky as not to know.
    </p>
<p>
      Much sympathy was, of course, exercised in my behalf, and as no one made
      claim to my corpse, it was ordered that I should be interred in a public
      vault.
    </p>
<p>
      Here, after due interval, I was deposited. The sexton departed, and I was
      left alone. A line of Marston’s “Malcontent”—
    </p>
<p>
      Death’s a good fellow and keeps open house—struck me at that
      moment as a palpable lie.
    </p>
<p>
      I knocked off, however, the lid of my coffin, and stepped out. The place
      was dreadfully dreary and damp, and I became troubled with ennui. By way
      of amusement, I felt my way among the numerous coffins ranged in order
      around. I lifted them down, one by one, and breaking open their lids,
      busied myself in speculations about the mortality within.
    </p>
<p>
      “This,” I soliloquized, tumbling over a carcass, puffy,
      bloated, and rotund—“this has been, no doubt, in every sense
      of the word, an unhappy—an unfortunate man. It has been his terrible
      lot not to walk but to waddle—to pass through life not like a human
      being, but like an elephant—not like a man, but like a rhinoceros.
    </p>
<p>
      “His attempts at getting on have been mere abortions, and his
      circumgyratory proceedings a palpable failure. Taking a step forward, it
      has been his misfortune to take two toward the right, and three toward the
      left. His studies have been confined to the poetry of Crabbe. He can have
      no idea of the wonder of a pirouette. To him a pas de papillon has been an
      abstract conception. He has never ascended the summit of a hill. He has
      never viewed from any steeple the glories of a metropolis. Heat has been
      his mortal enemy. In the dog-days his days have been the days of a dog.
      Therein, he has dreamed of flames and suffocation—of mountains upon
      mountains—of Pelion upon Ossa. He was short of breath—to say
      all in a word, he was short of breath. He thought it extravagant to play
      upon wind instruments. He was the inventor of self-moving fans,
      wind-sails, and ventilators. He patronized Du Pont the bellows-maker, and
      he died miserably in attempting to smoke a cigar. His was a case in which
      I feel a deep interest—a lot in which I sincerely sympathize.
    </p>
<p>
      “But here,”—said I—“here”—and I
      dragged spitefully from its receptacle a gaunt, tall and peculiar-looking
      form, whose remarkable appearance struck me with a sense of unwelcome
      familiarity—“here is a wretch entitled to no earthly
      commiseration.” Thus saying, in order to obtain a more distinct view
      of my subject, I applied my thumb and forefinger to its nose, and causing
      it to assume a sitting position upon the ground, held it thus, at the
      length of my arm, while I continued my soliloquy.
    </p>
<p>
      “Entitled,” I repeated, “to no earthly commiseration.
      Who indeed would think of compassioning a shadow? Besides, has he not had
      his full share of the blessings of mortality? He was the originator of
      tall monuments—shot-towers—lightning-rods—Lombardy
      poplars. His treatise upon “Shades and Shadows” has
      immortalized him. He edited with distinguished ability the last edition of
      “South on the Bones.” He went early to college and studied
      pneumatics. He then came home, talked eternally, and played upon the
      French-horn. He patronized the bagpipes. Captain Barclay, who walked
      against Time, would not walk against him. Windham and Allbreath were his
      favorite writers,—his favorite artist, Phiz. He died gloriously
      while inhaling gas—levique flatu corrupitur, like the fama pudicitae
      in Hieronymus. {*1} He was indubitably a”—
    </p>
<p>
      “How can you?—how—can—you?”—interrupted
      the object of my animadversions, gasping for breath, and tearing off, with
      a desperate exertion, the bandage around its jaws—“how can
      you, Mr. Lackobreath, be so infernally cruel as to pinch me in that manner
      by the nose? Did you not see how they had fastened up my mouth—and
      you must know—if you know any thing—how vast a superfluity of
      breath I have to dispose of! If you do not know, however, sit down and you
      shall see. In my situation it is really a great relief to be able to open
      ones mouth—to be able to expatiate—to be able to communicate
      with a person like yourself, who do not think yourself called upon at
      every period to interrupt the thread of a gentleman’s discourse.
      Interruptions are annoying and should undoubtedly be abolished—don’t
      you think so?—no reply, I beg you,—one person is enough to be
      speaking at a time.—I shall be done by and by, and then you may
      begin.—How the devil sir, did you get into this place?—not a
      word I beseech you—been here some time myself—terrible
      accident!—heard of it, I suppose?—awful calamity!—walking
      under your windows—some short while ago—about the time you
      were stage-struck—horrible occurrence!—heard of “catching
      one’s breath,” eh?—hold your tongue I tell you!—I
      caught somebody elses!—had always too much of my own—met Blab
      at the corner of the street—wouldn’t give me a chance for a
      word—couldn’t get in a syllable edgeways—attacked,
      consequently, with epilepsis—Blab made his escape—damn all
      fools!—they took me up for dead, and put me in this place—pretty
      doings all of them!—heard all you said about me—every word a
      lie—horrible!—wonderful—outrageous!—hideous!—incomprehensible!—et
      cetera—et cetera—et cetera—et cetera-”
    </p>
<p>
      It is impossible to conceive my astonishment at so unexpected a discourse,
      or the joy with which I became gradually convinced that the breath so
      fortunately caught by the gentleman (whom I soon recognized as my neighbor
      Windenough) was, in fact, the identical expiration mislaid by myself in
      the conversation with my wife. Time, place, and circumstances rendered it
      a matter beyond question. I did not at least during the long period in
      which the inventor of Lombardy poplars continued to favor me with his
      explanations.
    </p>
<p>
      In this respect I was actuated by that habitual prudence which has ever
      been my predominating trait. I reflected that many difficulties might
      still lie in the path of my preservation which only extreme exertion on my
      part would be able to surmount. Many persons, I considered, are prone to
      estimate commodities in their possession—however valueless to the
      then proprietor—however troublesome, or distressing—in direct
      ratio with the advantages to be derived by others from their attainment,
      or by themselves from their abandonment. Might not this be the case with
      Mr. Windenough? In displaying anxiety for the breath of which he was at
      present so willing to get rid, might I not lay myself open to the
      exactions of his avarice? There are scoundrels in this world, I remembered
      with a sigh, who will not scruple to take unfair opportunities with even a
      next door neighbor, and (this remark is from Epictetus) it is precisely at
      that time when men are most anxious to throw off the burden of their own
      calamities that they feel the least desirous of relieving them in others.
    </p>
<p>
      Upon considerations similar to these, and still retaining my grasp upon
      the nose of Mr. W., I accordingly thought proper to model my reply.
    </p>
<p>
      “Monster!” I began in a tone of the deepest indignation—“monster
      and double-winded idiot!—dost thou, whom for thine iniquities it has
      pleased heaven to accurse with a two-fold respimtion—dost thou, I
      say, presume to address me in the familiar language of an old
      acquaintance?—‘I lie,’ forsooth! and ‘hold my
      tongue,’ to be sure!—pretty conversation indeed, to a
      gentleman with a single breath!—all this, too, when I have it in my
      power to relieve the calamity under which thou dost so justly suffer—to
      curtail the superfluities of thine unhappy respiration.”
    </p>
<p>
      Like Brutus, I paused for a reply—with which, like a tornado, Mr.
      Windenough immediately overwhelmed me. Protestation followed upon
      protestation, and apology upon apology. There were no terms with which he
      was unwilling to comply, and there were none of which I failed to take the
      fullest advantage.
    </p>
<p>
      Preliminaries being at length arranged, my acquaintance delivered me the
      respiration; for which (having carefully examined it) I gave him afterward
      a receipt.
    </p>
<p>
      I am aware that by many I shall be held to blame for speaking in a manner
      so cursory, of a transaction so impalpable. It will be thought that I
      should have entered more minutely, into the details of an occurrence by
      which—and this is very true—much new light might be thrown
      upon a highly interesting branch of physical philosophy.
    </p>
<p>
      To all this I am sorry that I cannot reply. A hint is the only answer
      which I am permitted to make. There were circumstances—but I think
      it much safer upon consideration to say as little as possible about an
      affair so delicate—so delicate, I repeat, and at the time involving
      the interests of a third party whose sulphurous resentment I have not the
      least desire, at this moment, of incurring.
    </p>
<p>
      We were not long after this necessary arrangement in effecting an escape
      from the dungeons of the sepulchre. The united strength of our
      resuscitated voices was soon sufficiently apparent. Scissors, the Whig
      editor, republished a treatise upon “the nature and origin of
      subterranean noises.” A reply—rejoinder—confutation—and
      justification—followed in the columns of a Democratic Gazette. It
      was not until the opening of the vault to decide the controversy, that the
      appearance of Mr. Windenough and myself proved both parties to have been
      decidedly in the wrong.
    </p>
<p>
      I cannot conclude these details of some very singular passages in a life
      at all times sufficiently eventful, without again recalling to the
      attention of the reader the merits of that indiscriminate philosophy which
      is a sure and ready shield against those shafts of calamity which can
      neither be seen, felt nor fully understood. It was in the spirit of this
      wisdom that, among the ancient Hebrews, it was believed the gates of
      Heaven would be inevitably opened to that sinner, or saint, who, with good
      lungs and implicit confidence, should vociferate the word “Amen!”
      It was in the spirit of this wisdom that, when a great plague raged at
      Athens, and every means had been in vain attempted for its removal,
      Epimenides, as Laertius relates, in his second book, of that philosopher,
      advised the erection of a shrine and temple “to the proper God.”
    </p>
<p>
      LYTTLETON BARRY. <a name="2150link2H_4_0015">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      THE MAN THAT WAS USED UP.
    </h2>
<h3>
      A TALE OF THE LATE BUGABOO AND KICKAPOO CAMPAIGN.
    </h3>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     <i>Pleurez, pleurez, mes yeux, et fondez vous en eau!</i>

     <i>La moiti?; de ma vie a mis l’ autre au tombeau.</i>

      CORNEILLE.
</pre>
<p>
      I CANNOT just now remember when or where I first made the acquaintance of
      that truly fine-looking fellow, Brevet Brigadier General John A. B. C.
      Smith. Some one <i>did</i> introduce me to the gentleman, I am sure—at
      some public meeting, I know very well—held about something of great
      importance, no doubt—at some place or other, I feel convinced,—whose
      name I have unaccountably forgotten. The truth is—that the
      introduction was attended, upon my part, with a degree of anxious
      embarrassment which operated to prevent any definite impressions of either
      time or place. I am constitutionally nervous—this, with me, is a
      family failing, and I can’t help it. In especial, the slightest
      appearance of mystery—of any point I cannot exactly comprehend—puts
      me at once into a pitiable state of agitation.
    </p>
<p>
      There was something, as it were, remarkable—yes, <i>remarkable</i>,
      although this is but a feeble term to express my full meaning—about
      the entire individuality of the personage in question. He was, perhaps,
      six feet in height, and of a presence singularly commanding. There was an
      <i>air distingu?</i> pervading the whole man, which spoke of high
      breeding, and hinted at high birth. Upon this topic—the topic of
      Smith’s personal appearance—I have a kind of melancholy
      satisfaction in being minute. His head of hair would have done honor to a
      Brutus;—nothing could be more richly flowing, or possess a brighter
      gloss. It was of a jetty black;—which was also the color, or more
      properly the no color of his unimaginable whiskers. You perceive I cannot
      speak of these latter without enthusiasm; it is not too much to say that
      they were the handsomest pair of whiskers under the sun. At all events,
      they encircled, and at times partially overshadowed, a mouth utterly
      unequalled. Here were the most entirely even, and the most brilliantly
      white of all conceivable teeth. From between them, upon every proper
      occasion, issued a voice of surpassing clearness, melody, and strength. In
      the matter of eyes, also, my acquaintance was pre-eminently endowed.
      Either one of such a pair was worth a couple of the ordinary ocular
      organs. They were of a deep hazel, exceedingly large and lustrous; and
      there was perceptible about them, ever and anon, just that amount of
      interesting obliquity which gives pregnancy to expression.
    </p>
<p>
      The bust of the General was unquestionably the finest bust I ever saw. For
      your life you could not have found a fault with its wonderful proportion.
      This rare peculiarity set off to great advantage a pair of shoulders which
      would have called up a blush of conscious inferiority into the countenance
      of the marble Apollo. I have a passion for fine shoulders, and may say
      that I never beheld them in perfection before. The arms altogether were
      admirably modelled. Nor were the lower limbs less superb. These were,
      indeed, the <i>ne plus ultra</i> of good legs. Every connoisseur in such
      matters admitted the legs to be good. There was neither too much flesh,
      nor too little,—neither rudeness nor fragility. I could not imagine
      a more graceful curve than that of the <i>os femoris</i>, and there was
      just that due gentle prominence in the rear of the <i>fibula</i> which
      goes to the conformation of a properly proportioned calf. I wish to God my
      young and talented friend Chiponchipino, the sculptor, had but seen the
      legs of Brevet Brigadier General John A. B. C. Smith.
    </p>
<p>
      But although men so absolutely fine-looking are neither as plenty as
      reasons or blackberries, still I could not bring myself to believe that <i>the
      remarkable</i> something to which I alluded just now,—that the odd
      air of <i>je ne sais quoi</i> which hung about my new acquaintance,—lay
      altogether, or indeed at all, in the supreme excellence of his bodily
      endowments. Perhaps it might be traced to the <i>manner</i>;—yet
      here again I could not pretend to be positive. There <i>was</i> a
      primness, not to say stiffness, in his carriage—a degree of
      measured, and, if I may so express it, of rectangular precision, attending
      his every movement, which, observed in a more diminutive figure, would
      have had the least little savor in the world, of affectation, pomposity or
      constraint, but which noticed in a gentleman of his undoubted dimensions,
      was readily placed to the account of reserve, <i>hauteur</i>—of a
      commendable sense, in short, of what is due to the dignity of colossal
      proportion.
    </p>
<p>
      The kind friend who presented me to General Smith whispered in my ear some
      few words of comment upon the man. He was a <i>remarkable</i> man—a
      <i>very</i> remarkable man—indeed one of the <i>most</i> remarkable
      men of the age. He was an especial favorite, too, with the ladies—chiefly
      on account of his high reputation for courage.
    </p>
<p>
      “In <i>that</i> point he is unrivalled—indeed he is a perfect
      desperado—a down-right fire-eater, and no mistake,” said my
      friend, here dropping his voice excessively low, and thrilling me with the
      mystery of his tone.
    </p>
<p>
      “A downright fire-eater, and <i>no</i> mistake. Showed <i>that</i>,
      I should say, to some purpose, in the late tremendous swamp-fight away
      down South, with the Bugaboo and Kickapoo Indians.” [Here my friend
      opened his eyes to some extent.] “Bless my soul!—blood and
      thunder, and all that!—<i>prodigies</i> of valor!—heard of him
      of course?—you know he’s the man”—
    </p>
<p>
      “Man alive, how <i>do</i> you do? why, how <i>are</i> ye? <i>very</i>
      glad to see ye, indeed!” here interrupted the General himself,
      seizing my companion by the hand as he drew near, and bowing stiffly, but
      profoundly, as I was presented. I then thought, (and I think so still,)
      that I never heard a clearer nor a stronger voice, nor beheld a finer set
      of teeth: but I <i>must</i> say that I was sorry for the interruption just
      at that moment, as, owing to the whispers and insinuations aforesaid, my
      interest had been greatly excited in the hero of the Bugaboo and Kickapoo
      campaign.
    </p>
<p>
      However, the delightfully luminous conversation of Brevet Brigadier
      General John A. B. C. Smith soon completely dissipated this chagrin. My
      friend leaving us immediately, we had quite a long <i>t?te-?-t?te</i>, and
      I was not only pleased but <i>really</i>—instructed. I never heard a
      more fluent talker, or a man of greater general information. With becoming
      modesty, he forebore, nevertheless, to touch upon the theme I had just
      then most at heart—I mean the mysterious circumstances attending the
      Bugaboo war—and, on my own part, what I conceive to be a proper
      sense of delicacy forbade me to broach the subject; although, in truth, I
      was exceedingly tempted to do so. I perceived, too, that the gallant
      soldier preferred topics of philosophical interest, and that he delighted,
      especially, in commenting upon the rapid march of mechanical invention.
      Indeed, lead him where I would, this was a point to which he invariably
      came back.
    </p>
<p>
      “There is nothing at all like it,” he would say; “we are
      a wonderful people, and live in a wonderful age. Parachutes and rail-roads—man-traps
      and spring-guns! Our steam-boats are upon every sea, and the Nassau
      balloon packet is about to run regular trips (fare either way only twenty
      pounds sterling) between London and Timbuctoo. And who shall calculate the
      immense influence upon social life—upon arts—upon commerce—upon
      literature—which will be the immediate result of the great
      principles of electro magnetics! Nor, is this all, let me assure you!
      There is really no end to the march of invention. The most wonderful—the
      most ingenious—and let me add, Mr.—Mr.—Thompson, I
      believe, is your name—let me add, I say, the most <i>useful</i>—the
      most truly <i>useful</i> mechanical contrivances, are daily springing up
      like mushrooms, if I may so express myself, or, more figuratively, like—ah—grasshoppers—like
      grasshoppers, Mr. Thompson—about us and ah—ah—ah—around
      us!”
    </p>
<p>
      Thompson, to be sure, is not my name; but it is needless to say that I
      left General Smith with a heightened interest in the man, with an exalted
      opinion of his conversational powers, and a deep sense of the valuable
      privileges we enjoy in living in this age of mechanical invention. My
      curiosity, however, had not been altogether satisfied, and I resolved to
      prosecute immediate inquiry among my acquaintances touching the Brevet
      Brigadier General himself, and particularly respecting the tremendous
      events <i>quorum pars magna fuit</i>, during the Bugaboo and Kickapoo
      campaign.
    </p>
<p>
      The first opportunity which presented itself, and which (<i>horresco
      referens</i>) I did not in the least scruple to seize, occurred at the
      Church of the Reverend Doctor Drummummupp, where I found myself
      established, one Sunday, just at sermon time, not only in the pew, but by
      the side, of that worthy and communicative little friend of mine, Miss
      Tabitha T. Thus seated, I congratulated myself, and with much reason, upon
      the very flattering state of affairs. If any person knew anything about
      Brevet Brigadier General John A. B. C. Smith, that person, it was clear to
      me, was Miss Tabitha T. We telegraphed a few signals, and then commenced,
      <i>soto voce</i>, a brisk <i>t?te-?-t?te</i>.
    </p>
<p>
      “Smith!” said she, in reply to my very earnest inquiry;
      “Smith!—why, not General John A. B. C.? Bless me, I thought
      you <i>knew</i> all about <i>him!</i> This is a wonderfully inventive age!
      Horrid affair that!—a bloody set of wretches, those Kickapoos!—fought
      like a hero—prodigies of valor—immortal renown. Smith!—Brevet
      Brigadier General John A. B. C.! why, you know he’s the man”—
    </p>
<p>
      “Man,” here broke in Doctor Drummummupp, at the top of his
      voice, and with a thump that came near knocking the pulpit about our ears;
      “man that is born of a woman hath but a short time to live; he
      cometh up and is cut down like a flower!” I started to the extremity
      of the pew, and perceived by the animated looks of the divine, that the
      wrath which had nearly proved fatal to the pulpit had been excited by the
      whispers of the lady and myself. There was no help for it; so I submitted
      with a good grace, and listened, in all the martyrdom of dignified
      silence, to the balance of that very capital discourse.
    </p>
<p>
      Next evening found me a somewhat late visitor at the Rantipole theatre,
      where I felt sure of satisfying my curiosity at once, by merely stepping
      into the box of those exquisite specimens of affability and omniscience,
      the Misses Arabella and Miranda Cognoscenti. That fine tragedian, Climax,
      was doing Iago to a very crowded house, and I experienced some little
      difficulty in making my wishes understood; especially, as our box was next
      the slips, and completely overlooked the stage.
    </p>
<p>
      “Smith?” said Miss Arabella, as she at length comprehended the
      purport of my query; “Smith?—why, not General John A. B. C.?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Smith?” inquired Miranda, musingly. “God bless me, did
      you ever behold a finer figure?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Never, madam, but <i>do</i> tell me”—
    </p>
<p>
      “Or so inimitable grace?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Never, upon my word!—But pray inform me”—
    </p>
<p>
      “Or so just an appreciation of stage effect?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Madam!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Or a more delicate sense of the true beauties of Shakespeare? Be so
      good as to look at that leg!”
    </p>
<p>
      “The devil!” and I turned again to her sister.
    </p>
<p>
      “Smith?” said she, “why, not General John A. B. C.?
      Horrid affair that, wasn’t it?—great wretches, those Bugaboos—savage
      and so on—but we live in a wonderfully inventive age!—Smith!—O
      yes! great man!—perfect desperado—immortal renown—prodigies
      of valor! <i>Never heard!</i>” [This was given in a scream.] “Bless
      my soul! why, he’s the man”—
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
                         “——-mandragora
     Nor all the drowsy syrups of the world
     Shall ever medicine thee to that sweet sleep
     Which thou owd’st yesterday!”
 </pre>
<p>
      here roared our Climax just in my ear, and shaking his fist in my face all
      the time, in a way that I <i>couldn’t</i> stand, and I <i>wouldn’t</i>.
      I left the Misses Cognoscenti immediately, went behind the scenes
      forthwith, and gave the beggarly scoundrel such a thrashing as I trust he
      will remember to the day of his death.
    </p>
<p>
      At the <i>soir?e</i> of the lovely widow, Mrs. Kathleen O’Trump, I
      was confident that I should meet with no similar disappointment.
      Accordingly, I was no sooner seated at the card-table, with my pretty
      hostess for a <i>vis-?-vis</i>, than I propounded those questions the
      solution of which had become a matter so essential to my peace.
    </p>
<p>
      “Smith?” said my partner, “why, not General John A. B.
      C.? Horrid affair that, wasn’t it?—diamonds, did you say?—terrible
      wretches those Kickapoos!—we are playing <i>whist</i>, if you
      please, Mr. Tattle—however, this is the age of invention, most
      certainly <i>the</i> age, one may say—<i>the</i> age <i>par
      excellence</i>—speak French?—oh, quite a hero—perfect
      desperado!—<i>no hearts</i>, Mr. Tattle? I don’t believe it!—immortal
      renown and all that!—prodigies of valor! <i>Never heard!!</i>—why,
      bless me, he’s the man”—
    </p>
<p>
      “Mann?—<i>Captain</i> Mann?” here screamed some little
      feminine interloper from the farthest corner of the room. “Are you
      talking about Captain Mann and the duel?—oh, I <i>must</i> hear—do
      tell—go on, Mrs. O’Trump!—do now go on!” And go on
      Mrs. O’Trump did—all about a certain Captain Mann, who was
      either shot or hung, or should have been both shot and hung. Yes! Mrs. O’Trump,
      she went on, and I—I went off. There was no chance of hearing
      anything farther that evening in regard to Brevet Brigadier General John
      A. B. C. Smith.
    </p>
<p>
      Still I consoled myself with the reflection that the tide of ill luck
      would not run against me forever, and so determined to make a bold push
      for information at the rout of that bewitching little angel, the graceful
      Mrs. Pirouette.
    </p>
<p>
      “Smith?” said Mrs. P., as we twirled about together in a <i>pas
      de zephyr</i>, “Smith?—why, not General John A. B. C.?
      Dreadful business that of the Bugaboos, wasn’t it?—dreadful
      creatures, those Indians!—<i>do</i> turn out your toes! I really am
      ashamed of you—man of great courage, poor fellow!—but this is
      a wonderful age for invention—O dear me, I’m out of breath—quite
      a desperado—prodigies of valor—<i>never heard!!</i>—can’t
      believe it—I shall have to sit down and enlighten you—Smith!
      why, he’s the man”—
    </p>
<p>
      “Man-<i>Fred</i>, I tell you!” here bawled out Miss Bas-Bleu,
      as I led Mrs. Pirouette to a seat. “Did ever anybody hear the like?
      It’s Man-<i>Fred</i>, I say, and not at all by any means Man-<i>Friday</i>.”
      Here Miss Bas-Bleu beckoned to me in a very peremptory manner; and I was
      obliged, will I nill I, to leave Mrs. P. for the purpose of deciding a
      dispute touching the title of a certain poetical drama of Lord Byron’s.
      Although I pronounced, with great promptness, that the true title was Man-<i>Friday</i>,
      and not by any means Man-<i>Fred</i>, yet when I returned to seek Mrs.
      Pirouette she was not to be discovered, and I made my r?treat from the
      house in a very bitter spirit of animosity against the whole race of the
      Bas-Bleus.
    </p>
<p>
      Matters had now assumed a really serious aspect, and I resolved to call at
      once upon my particular friend, Mr. Theodore Sinivate; for I knew that
      here at least I should get something like definite information.
    </p>
<p>
      “Smith?” said he, in his well-known peculiar way of drawling
      out his syllables; “Smith?—why, not General John A. B. C.?
      Savage affair that with the Kickapo-o-o-os, wasn’t it? Say! don’t
      you think so?—perfect despera-a-ado—great pity, ‘pon my
      honor!—wonderfully inventive age!—pro-o-odigies of valor! By
      the by, did you ever hear about Captain Ma-a-a-a-n?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Captain Mann be d—d!” said I; “please to go on
      with your story.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Hem!—oh well!—quite <i>la m?me cho-o-ose</i>, as we say
      in France. Smith, eh? Brigadier-General John A. B. C.? I say”—[here
      Mr. S. thought proper to put his finger to the side of his nose]—“I
      say, you don’t mean to insinuate now, really and truly, and
      conscientiously, that you don’t know all about that affair of Smith’s,
      as well as I do, eh? Smith? John A-B-C.? Why, bless me, he’s the
      ma-a-an”—
    </p>
<p>
      “<i>Mr</i>. Sinivate,” said I, imploringly, “<i>is</i>
      he the man in the mask?”
    </p>
<p>
      “No-o-o!” said he, looking wise, “nor the man in the
      mo-o-on.”
    </p>
<p>
      This reply I considered a pointed and positive insult, and so left the
      house at once in high dudgeon, with a firm resolve to call my friend, Mr.
      Sinivate, to a speedy account for his ungentlemanly conduct and
      ill-breeding.
    </p>
<p>
      In the meantime, however, I had no notion of being thwarted touching the
      information I desired. There was one resource left me yet. I would go to
      the fountain-head. I would call forthwith upon the General himself, and
      demand, in explicit terms, a solution of this abominable piece of mystery.
      Here, at least, there should be no chance for equivocation. I would be
      plain, positive, peremptory—as short as pie-crust—as concise
      as Tacitus or Montesquieu.
    </p>
<p>
      It was early when I called, and the General was dressing; but I pleaded
      urgent business, and was shown at once into his bed-room by an old negro
      valet, who remained in attendance during my visit. As I entered the
      chamber, I looked about, of course, for the occupant, but did not
      immediately perceive him. There was a large and exceedingly odd-looking
      bundle of something which lay close by my feet on the floor, and, as I was
      not in the best humor in the world, I gave it a kick out of the way.
    </p>
<p>
      “Hem! ahem! rather civil that, I should say!” said the bundle,
      in one of the smallest, and altogether the funniest little voices, between
      a squeak and a whistle, that I ever heard in all the days of my existence.
    </p>
<p>
      “Ahem! rather civil that, I should observe.”
    </p>
<p>
      I fairly shouted with terror, and made off, at a tangent, into the
      farthest extremity of the room.
    </p>
<p>
      “God bless me! my dear fellow,” here again whistled the
      bundle, “what—what—what—why, what <i>is</i> the
      matter? I really believe you don’t know me at all.”
    </p>
<p>
      What <i>could</i> I say to all this—what <i>could</i> I? I staggered
      into an arm-chair, and, with staring eyes and open mouth, awaited the
      solution of the wonder.
    </p>
<p>
      “Strange you shouldn’t know me though, isn’t it?”
      presently re-squeaked the nondescript, which I now perceived was
      performing, upon the floor, some inexplicable evolution, very analogous to
      the drawing on of a stocking. There was only a single leg, however,
      apparent.
    </p>
<p>
      “Strange you shouldn’t know me, though, isn’t it?
      Pompey, bring me that leg!” Here Pompey handed the bundle, a very
      capital cork leg, already dressed, which it screwed on in a trice; and
      then it stood up before my eyes.
    </p>
<p>
      “And a bloody action it <i>was</i>,” continued the thing, as
      if in a soliloquy; “but then one mustn’t fight with the
      Bugaboos and Kickapoos, and think of coming off with a mere scratch.
      Pompey, I’ll thank you now for that arm. Thomas” [turning to
      me] “is decidedly the best hand at a cork leg; but if you should
      ever want an arm, my dear fellow, you must really let me recommend you to
      Bishop.” Here Pompey screwed on an arm.
    </p>
<p>
      “We had rather hot work of it, that you may say. Now, you dog, slip
      on my shoulders and bosom! Pettitt makes the best shoulders, but for a
      bosom you will have to go to Ducrow.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Bosom!” said I.
    </p>
<p>
      “Pompey, will you <i>never</i> be ready with that wig? Scalping is a
      rough process after all; but then you can procure such a capital scratch
      at De L’Orme’s.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Scratch!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Now, you nigger, my teeth! For a <i>good</i> set of these you had
      better go to Parmly’s at once; high prices, but excellent work. I
      swallowed some very capital articles, though, when the big Bugaboo rammed
      me down with the butt end of his rifle.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Butt end! ram down!! my eye!!”
    </p>
<p>
      “O yes, by-the-by, my eye—here, Pompey, you scamp, screw it in
      ! Those Kickapoos are not so very slow at a gouge; but he’s a belied
      man, that Dr. Williams, after all; you can’t imagine how well I see
      with the eyes of his make.”
    </p>
<p>
      I now began very clearly to perceive that the object before me was nothing
      more nor less than my new acquaintance, Brevet Brigadier General John A.
      B. C. Smith. The manipulations of Pompey had made, I must confess, a very
      striking difference in the appearance of the personal man. The voice,
      however, still puzzled me no little; but even this apparent mystery was
      speedily cleared up.
    </p>
<p>
      “Pompey, you black rascal,” squeaked the General, “I
      really do believe you would let me go out without my palate.”
    </p>
<p>
      Hereupon, the negro, grumbling out an apology, went up to his master,
      opened his mouth with the knowing air of a horse-jockey, and adjusted
      therein a somewhat singular-looking machine, in a very dexterous manner,
      that I could not altogether comprehend. The alteration, however, in the
      entire expression of the General’s countenance was instantaneous and
      surprising. When he again spoke, his voice had resumed all that rich
      melody and strength which I had noticed upon our original introduction.
    </p>
<p>
      “D—n the vagabonds!” said he, in so clear a tone that I
      positively started at the change, “D—n the vagabonds! they not
      only knocked in the roof of my mouth, but took the trouble to cut off at
      least seven-eighths of my tongue. There isn’t Bonfanti’s
      equal, however, in America, for really good articles of this description.
      I can recommend you to him with confidence,” [here the General
      bowed,] “and assure you that I have the greatest pleasure in so
      doing.”
    </p>
<p>
      I acknowledged his kindness in my best manner, and took leave of him at
      once, with a perfect understanding of the true state of affairs—with
      a full comprehension of the mystery which had troubled me so long. It was
      evident. It was a clear case. Brevet Brigadier General John A. B. C. Smith
      was the man—was <i>the man that was used up</i>.
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2150link2H_4_0016">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      THE BUSINESS MAN
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     Method is the soul of business.—OLD SAYING.
</pre>
<p>
      I AM a business man. I am a methodical man. Method is the thing, after
      all. But there are no people I more heartily despise than your eccentric
      fools who prate about method without understanding it; attending strictly
      to its letter, and violating its spirit. These fellows are always doing
      the most out-of-the-way things in what they call an orderly manner. Now
      here, I conceive, is a positive paradox. True method appertains to the
      ordinary and the obvious alone, and cannot be applied to the outre. What
      definite idea can a body attach to such expressions as “methodical
      Jack o’ Dandy,” or “a systematical Will o’ the
      Wisp”?
    </p>
<p>
      My notions upon this head might not have been so clear as they are, but
      for a fortunate accident which happened to me when I was a very little
      boy. A good-hearted old Irish nurse (whom I shall not forget in my will)
      took me up one day by the heels, when I was making more noise than was
      necessary, and swinging me round two or knocked my head into a cocked hat
      against the bedpost. This, I say, decided my fate, and made my fortune. A
      bump arose at once on my sinciput, and turned out to be as pretty an organ
      of order as one shall see on a summer’s day. Hence that positive
      appetite for system and regularity which has made me the distinguished man
      of business that I am.
    </p>
<p>
      If there is any thing on earth I hate, it is a genius. Your geniuses are
      all arrant asses—the greater the genius the greater the ass—and
      to this rule there is no exception whatever. Especially, you cannot make a
      man of business out of a genius, any more than money out of a Jew, or the
      best nutmegs out of pine-knots. The creatures are always going off at a
      tangent into some fantastic employment, or ridiculous speculation,
      entirely at variance with the “fitness of things,” and having
      no business whatever to be considered as a business at all. Thus you may
      tell these characters immediately by the nature of their occupations. If
      you ever perceive a man setting up as a merchant or a manufacturer, or
      going into the cotton or tobacco trade, or any of those eccentric
      pursuits; or getting to be a drygoods dealer, or soap-boiler, or something
      of that kind; or pretending to be a lawyer, or a blacksmith, or a
      physician—any thing out of the usual way—you may set him down
      at once as a genius, and then, according to the rule-of-three, he’s
      an ass.
    </p>
<p>
      Now I am not in any respect a genius, but a regular business man. My
      Day-book and Ledger will evince this in a minute. They are well kept,
      though I say it myself; and, in my general habits of accuracy and
      punctuality, I am not to be beat by a clock. Moreover, my occupations have
      been always made to chime in with the ordinary habitudes of my fellowmen.
      Not that I feel the least indebted, upon this score, to my exceedingly
      weak-minded parents, who, beyond doubt, would have made an arrant genius
      of me at last, if my guardian angel had not come, in good time, to the
      rescue. In biography the truth is every thing, and in autobiography it is
      especially so—yet I scarcely hope to be believed when I state,
      however solemnly, that my poor father put me, when I was about fifteen
      years of age, into the counting-house of what be termed “a
      respectable hardware and commission merchant doing a capital bit of
      business!” A capital bit of fiddlestick! However, the consequence of
      this folly was, that in two or three days, I had to be sent home to my
      button-headed family in a high state of fever, and with a most violent and
      dangerous pain in the sinciput, all around about my organ of order. It was
      nearly a gone case with me then—just touch-and-go for six weeks—the
      physicians giving me up and all that sort of thing. But, although I
      suffered much, I was a thankful boy in the main. I was saved from being a
      “respectable hardware and commission merchant, doing a capital bit
      of business,” and I felt grateful to the protuberance which had been
      the means of my salvation, as well as to the kindhearted female who had
      originally put these means within my reach.
    </p>
<p>
      The most of boys run away from home at ten or twelve years of age, but I
      waited till I was sixteen. I don’t know that I should have gone even
      then, if I had not happened to hear my old mother talk about setting me up
      on my own hook in the grocery way. The grocery way!—only think of
      that! I resolved to be off forthwith, and try and establish myself in some
      decent occupation, without dancing attendance any longer upon the caprices
      of these eccentric old people, and running the risk of being made a genius
      of in the end. In this project I succeeded perfectly well at the first
      effort, and by the time I was fairly eighteen, found myself doing an
      extensive and profitable business in the Tailor’s
      Walking-Advertisement line.
    </p>
<p>
      I was enabled to discharge the onerous duties of this profession, only by
      that rigid adherence to system which formed the leading feature of my
      mind. A scrupulous method characterized my actions as well as my accounts.
      In my case it was method—not money—which made the man: at
      least all of him that was not made by the tailor whom I served. At nine,
      every morning, I called upon that individual for the clothes of the day.
      Ten o’clock found me in some fashionable promenade or other place of
      public amusement. The precise regularity with which I turned my handsome
      person about, so as to bring successively into view every portion of the
      suit upon my back, was the admiration of all the knowing men in the trade.
      Noon never passed without my bringing home a customer to the house of my
      employers, Messrs. Cut &amp; Comeagain. I say this proudly, but with tears
      in my eyes—for the firm proved themselves the basest of ingrates.
      The little account, about which we quarreled and finally parted, cannot,
      in any item, be thought overcharged, by gentlemen really conversant with
      the nature of the business. Upon this point, however, I feel a degree of
      proud satisfaction in permitting the reader to judge for himself. My bill
      ran thus:
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
  Messrs. Cut &amp; Comeagain, Merchant Tailors.
  To Peter Proffit, Walking Advertiser, Drs.
  JULY 10.—to promenade, as usual and customer brought home... $00
  25
  JULY 11.—To do do do 25
  JULY 12.—To one lie, second class; damaged black cloth sold for
  invisible green............................................... 25

  JULY 13.—To one lie, first class, extra quality and size;
  recommended milled satinet as broadcloth...................... 75

  JULY 20.—To purchasing bran new paper shirt collar or dickey, to
  set off gray Petersham..................................... 02

  AUG. 15.—To wearing double-padded bobtail frock, (thermometer 106
  in the shade)............................................. 25

  AUG. 16.—Standing on one leg three hours, to show off new-style
  strapped pants at 12 1/2 cents per leg per hour............. 37 1/2

  AUG. 17.—To promenade, as usual, and large customer brought (fat
  man)..................................................... 50

  AUG. 18.—To do do (medium size)................. 25

  AUG. 19.—To do do (small man and bad pay)....... 06

  TOTAL [sic] $2 95 1/2
</pre>
<p>
      The item chiefly disputed in this bill was the very moderate charge of two
      pennies for the dickey. Upon my word of honor, this was not an
      unreasonable price for that dickey. It was one of the cleanest and
      prettiest little dickeys I ever saw; and I have good reason to believe
      that it effected the sale of three Petershams. The elder partner of the
      firm, however, would allow me only one penny of the charge, and took it
      upon himself to show in what manner four of the same sized conveniences
      could be got out of a sheet of foolscap. But it is needless to say that I
      stood upon the principle of the thing. Business is business, and should be
      done in a business way. There was no system whatever in swindling me out
      of a penny—a clear fraud of fifty per cent—no method in any
      respect. I left at once the employment of Messrs. Cut &amp; Comeagain, and
      set up in the Eye-Sore line by myself—one of the most lucrative,
      respectable, and independent of the ordinary occupations.
    </p>
<p>
      My strict integrity, economy, and rigorous business habits, here again
      came into play. I found myself driving a flourishing trade, and soon
      became a marked man upon ‘Change. The truth is, I never dabbled in
      flashy matters, but jogged on in the good old sober routine of the calling—a
      calling in which I should, no doubt, have remained to the present hour,
      but for a little accident which happened to me in the prosecution of one
      of the usual business operations of the profession. Whenever a rich old
      hunks or prodigal heir or bankrupt corporation gets into the notion of
      putting up a palace, there is no such thing in the world as stopping
      either of them, and this every intelligent person knows. The fact in
      question is indeed the basis of the Eye-Sore trade. As soon, therefore, as
      a building-project is fairly afoot by one of these parties, we merchants
      secure a nice corner of the lot in contemplation, or a prime little
      situation just adjoining, or tight in front. This done, we wait until the
      palace is half-way up, and then we pay some tasty architect to run us up
      an ornamental mud hovel, right against it; or a Down-East or Dutch Pagoda,
      or a pig-sty, or an ingenious little bit of fancy work, either Esquimau,
      Kickapoo, or Hottentot. Of course we can’t afford to take these
      structures down under a bonus of five hundred per cent upon the prime cost
      of our lot and plaster. Can we? I ask the question. I ask it of business
      men. It would be irrational to suppose that we can. And yet there was a
      rascally corporation which asked me to do this very thing—this very
      thing! I did not reply to their absurd proposition, of course; but I felt
      it a duty to go that same night, and lamp-black the whole of their palace.
      For this the unreasonable villains clapped me into jail; and the gentlemen
      of the Eye-Sore trade could not well avoid cutting my connection when I
      came out.
    </p>
<p>
      The Assault-and-Battery business, into which I was now forced to adventure
      for a livelihood, was somewhat ill-adapted to the delicate nature of my
      constitution; but I went to work in it with a good heart, and found my
      account here, as heretofore, in those stern habits of methodical accuracy
      which had been thumped into me by that delightful old nurse—I would
      indeed be the basest of men not to remember her well in my will. By
      observing, as I say, the strictest system in all my dealings, and keeping
      a well-regulated set of books, I was enabled to get over many serious
      difficulties, and, in the end, to establish myself very decently in the
      profession. The truth is, that few individuals, in any line, did a snugger
      little business than I. I will just copy a page or so out of my Day-Book;
      and this will save me the necessity of blowing my own trumpet—a
      contemptible practice of which no high-minded man will be guilty. Now, the
      Day-Book is a thing that don’t lie.
    </p>
<p>
      “Jan. 1.—New Year’s Day. Met Snap in the street, groggy.
      Mem—he’ll do. Met Gruff shortly afterward, blind drunk. Mem—he’ll
      answer, too. Entered both gentlemen in my Ledger, and opened a running
      account with each.
    </p>
<p>
      “Jan. 2.—Saw Snap at the Exchange, and went up and trod on his
      toe. Doubled his fist and knocked me down. Good!—got up again. Some
      trifling difficulty with Bag, my attorney. I want the damages at a
      thousand, but he says that for so simple a knock down we can’t lay
      them at more than five hundred. Mem—must get rid of Bag—no
      system at all.
    </p>
<p>
      “Jan. 3—Went to the theatre, to look for Gruff. Saw him
      sitting in a side box, in the second tier, between a fat lady and a lean
      one. Quizzed the whole party through an opera-glass, till I saw the fat
      lady blush and whisper to G. Went round, then, into the box, and put my
      nose within reach of his hand. Wouldn’t pull it—no go. Blew
      it, and tried again—no go. Sat down then, and winked at the lean
      lady, when I had the high satisfaction of finding him lift me up by the
      nape of the neck, and fling me over into the pit. Neck dislocated, and
      right leg capitally splintered. Went home in high glee, drank a bottle of
      champagne, and booked the young man for five thousand. Bag says it’ll
      do.
    </p>
<p>
      “Feb. 15—Compromised the case of Mr. Snap. Amount entered in
      Journal—fifty cents—which see.
    </p>
<p>
      “Feb. 16.—Cast by that ruffian, Gruff, who made me a present
      of five dollars. Costs of suit, four dollars and twenty-five cents. Nett
      profit,—see Journal,—seventy-five cents.”
    </p>
<p>
      Now, here is a clear gain, in a very brief period, of no less than one
      dollar and twenty-five cents—this is in the mere cases of Snap and
      Gruff; and I solemnly assure the reader that these extracts are taken at
      random from my Day-Book.
    </p>
<p>
      It’s an old saying, and a true one, however, that money is nothing
      in comparison with health. I found the exactions of the profession
      somewhat too much for my delicate state of body; and, discovering, at
      last, that I was knocked all out of shape, so that I didn’t know
      very well what to make of the matter, and so that my friends, when they
      met me in the street, couldn’t tell that I was Peter Proffit at all,
      it occurred to me that the best expedient I could adopt was to alter my
      line of business. I turned my attention, therefore, to Mud-Dabbling, and
      continued it for some years.
    </p>
<p>
      The worst of this occupation is, that too many people take a fancy to it,
      and the competition is in consequence excessive. Every ignoramus of a
      fellow who finds that he hasn’t brains in sufficient quantity to
      make his way as a walking advertiser, or an eye-sore prig, or a
      salt-and-batter man, thinks, of course, that he’ll answer very well
      as a dabbler of mud. But there never was entertained a more erroneous idea
      than that it requires no brains to mud-dabble. Especially, there is
      nothing to be made in this way without method. I did only a retail
      business myself, but my old habits of system carried me swimmingly along.
      I selected my street-crossing, in the first place, with great
      deliberation, and I never put down a broom in any part of the town but
      that. I took care, too, to have a nice little puddle at hand, which I
      could get at in a minute. By these means I got to be well known as a man
      to be trusted; and this is one-half the battle, let me tell you, in trade.
      Nobody ever failed to pitch me a copper, and got over my crossing with a
      clean pair of pantaloons. And, as my business habits, in this respect,
      were sufficiently understood, I never met with any attempt at imposition.
      I wouldn’t have put up with it, if I had. Never imposing upon any
      one myself, I suffered no one to play the possum with me. The frauds of
      the banks of course I couldn’t help. Their suspension put me to
      ruinous inconvenience. These, however, are not individuals, but
      corporations; and corporations, it is very well known, have neither bodies
      to be kicked nor souls to be damned.
    </p>
<p>
      I was making money at this business when, in an evil moment, I was induced
      to merge it in the Cur-Spattering—a somewhat analogous, but, by no
      means, so respectable a profession. My location, to be sure, was an
      excellent one, being central, and I had capital blacking and brushes. My
      little dog, too, was quite fat and up to all varieties of snuff. He had
      been in the trade a long time, and, I may say, understood it. Our general
      routine was this:—Pompey, having rolled himself well in the mud, sat
      upon end at the shop door, until he observed a dandy approaching in bright
      boots. He then proceeded to meet him, and gave the Wellingtons a rub or
      two with his wool. Then the dandy swore very much, and looked about for a
      boot-black. There I was, full in his view, with blacking and brushes. It
      was only a minute’s work, and then came a sixpence. This did
      moderately well for a time;—in fact, I was not avaricious, but my
      dog was. I allowed him a third of the profit, but he was advised to insist
      upon half. This I couldn’t stand—so we quarrelled and parted.
    </p>
<p>
      I next tried my hand at the Organ-Grinding for a while, and may say that I
      made out pretty well. It is a plain, straightforward business, and
      requires no particular abilities. You can get a music-mill for a mere
      song, and to put it in order, you have but to open the works, and give
      them three or four smart raps with a hammer. In improves the tone of the
      thing, for business purposes, more than you can imagine. This done, you
      have only to stroll along, with the mill on your back, until you see
      tanbark in the street, and a knocker wrapped up in buckskin. Then you stop
      and grind; looking as if you meant to stop and grind till doomsday.
      Presently a window opens, and somebody pitches you a sixpence, with a
      request to “Hush up and go on,” etc. I am aware that some
      grinders have actually afforded to “go on” for this sum; but
      for my part, I found the necessary outlay of capital too great to permit
      of my “going on” under a shilling.
    </p>
<p>
      At this occupation I did a good deal; but, somehow, I was not quite
      satisfied, and so finally abandoned it. The truth is, I labored under the
      disadvantage of having no monkey—and American streets are so muddy,
      and a Democratic rabble is so obstrusive, and so full of demnition
      mischievous little boys.
    </p>
<p>
      I was now out of employment for some months, but at length succeeded, by
      dint of great interest, in procuring a situation in the Sham-Post. The
      duties, here, are simple, and not altogether unprofitable. For example:—very
      early in the morning I had to make up my packet of sham letters. Upon the
      inside of each of these I had to scrawl a few lines on any subject which
      occurred to me as sufficiently mysterious—signing all the epistles
      Tom Dobson, or Bobby Tompkins, or anything in that way. Having folded and
      sealed all, and stamped them with sham postmarks—New Orleans,
      Bengal, Botany Bay, or any other place a great way off—I set out,
      forthwith, upon my daily route, as if in a very great hurry. I always
      called at the big houses to deliver the letters, and receive the postage.
      Nobody hesitates at paying for a letter—especially for a double one—people
      are such fools—and it was no trouble to get round a corner before
      there was time to open the epistles. The worst of this profession was,
      that I had to walk so much and so fast; and so frequently to vary my
      route. Besides, I had serious scruples of conscience. I can’t bear
      to hear innocent individuals abused—and the way the whole town took
      to cursing Tom Dobson and Bobby Tompkins was really awful to hear. I
      washed my hands of the matter in disgust.
    </p>
<p>
      My eighth and last speculation has been in the Cat-Growing way. I have
      found that a most pleasant and lucrative business, and, really, no trouble
      at all. The country, it is well known, has become infested with cats—so
      much so of late, that a petition for relief, most numerously and
      respectably signed, was brought before the Legislature at its late
      memorable session. The Assembly, at this epoch, was unusually
      well-informed, and, having passed many other wise and wholesome
      enactments, it crowned all with the Cat-Act. In its original form, this
      law offered a premium for cat-heads (fourpence a-piece), but the Senate
      succeeded in amending the main clause, so as to substitute the word
      “tails” for “heads.” This amendment was so
      obviously proper, that the House concurred in it nem. con.
    </p>
<p>
      As soon as the governor had signed the bill, I invested my whole estate in
      the purchase of Toms and Tabbies. At first I could only afford to feed
      them upon mice (which are cheap), but they fulfilled the scriptural
      injunction at so marvellous a rate, that I at length considered it my best
      policy to be liberal, and so indulged them in oysters and turtle. Their
      tails, at a legislative price, now bring me in a good income; for I have
      discovered a way, in which, by means of Macassar oil, I can force three
      crops in a year. It delights me to find, too, that the animals soon get
      accustomed to the thing, and would rather have the appendages cut off than
      otherwise. I consider myself, therefore, a made man, and am bargaining for
      a country seat on the Hudson.
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2150link2H_4_0017">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      THE LANDSCAPE GARDEN
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     The garden like a lady fair was cut
     That lay as if she slumbered in delight,
     And to the open skies her eyes did shut;
     The azure fields of heaven were ‘sembled right
     In a large round set with flow’rs of light:
     The flowers de luce and the round sparks of dew
     That hung upon their azure leaves, did show
     Like twinkling stars that sparkle in the ev’ning blue.
                  —GILES FLETCHER
</pre>
<p>
      NO MORE remarkable man ever lived than my friend, the young Ellison. He
      was remarkable in the entire and continuous profusion of good gifts ever
      lavished upon him by fortune. From his cradle to his grave, a gale of the
      blandest prosperity bore him along. Nor do I use the word Prosperity in
      its mere wordly or external sense. I mean it as synonymous with happiness.
      The person of whom I speak, seemed born for the purpose of foreshadowing
      the wild doctrines of Turgot, Price, Priestley, and Condorcet—of
      exemplifying, by individual instance, what has been deemed the mere
      chimera of the perfectionists. In the brief existence of Ellison, I fancy,
      that I have seen refuted the dogma—that in man’s physical and
      spiritual nature, lies some hidden principle, the antagonist of Bliss. An
      intimate and anxious examination of his career, has taught me to
      understand that, in general, from the violation of a few simple laws of
      Humanity, arises the Wretchedness of mankind; that, as a species, we have
      in our possession the as yet unwrought elements of Content,—and that
      even now, in the present blindness and darkness of all idea on the great
      question of the Social Condition, it is not impossible that Man, the
      individual, under certain unusual and highly fortuitous conditions, may be
      happy.
    </p>
<p>
      With opinions such as these was my young friend fully imbued; and thus is
      it especially worthy of observation that the uninterrupted enjoyment which
      distinguished his life was in great part the result of preconcert. It is,
      indeed evident, that with less of the instinctive philosophy which, now
      and then, stands so well in the stead of experience, Mr. Ellison would
      have found himself precipitated, by the very extraordinary successes of
      his life, into the common vortex of Unhappiness which yawns for those of
      preeminent endowments. But it is by no means my present object to pen an
      essay on Happiness. The ideas of my friend may be summed up in a few
      words. He admitted but four unvarying laws, or rather elementary
      principles, of Bliss. That which he considered chief, was (strange to
      say!) the simple and purely physical one of free exercise in the open air.
      “The health,” he said, “attainable by other means than
      this is scarcely worth the name.” He pointed to the tillers of the
      earth—the only people who, as a class, are proverbially more happy
      than others—and then he instanced the high ecstasies of the
      fox-hunter. His second principle was the love of woman. His third was the
      contempt of ambition. His fourth was an object of unceasing pursuit; and
      he held that, other things being equal, the extent of happiness was
      proportioned to the spirituality of this object.
    </p>
<p>
      I have said that Ellison was remarkable in the continuous profusion of
      good gifts lavished upon him by Fortune. In personal grace and beauty he
      exceeded all men. His intellect was of that order to which the attainment
      of knowledge is less a labor than a necessity and an intuition. His family
      was one of the most illustrious of the empire. His bride was the loveliest
      and most devoted of women. His possessions had been always ample; but,
      upon the attainment of his one and twentieth year, it was discovered that
      one of those extraordinary freaks of Fate had been played in his behalf
      which startle the whole social world amid which they occur, and seldom
      fail radically to alter the entire moral constitution of those who are
      their objects. It appears that about one hundred years prior to Mr.
      Ellison’s attainment of his majority, there had died, in a remote
      province, one Mr. Seabright Ellison. This gentlemen had amassed a princely
      fortune, and, having no very immediate connexions, conceived the whim of
      suffering his wealth to accumulate for a century after his decease.
      Minutely and sagaciously directing the various modes of investment, he
      bequeathed the aggregate amount to the nearest of blood, bearing the name
      Ellison, who should be alive at the end of the hundred years. Many futile
      attempts had been made to set aside this singular bequest; their ex post
      facto character rendered them abortive; but the attention of a jealous
      government was aroused, and a decree finally obtained, forbidding all
      similar accumulations. This act did not prevent young Ellison, upon his
      twenty-first birth-day, from entering into possession, as the heir of his
      ancestor, Seabright, of a fortune of four hundred and fifty millions of
      dollars. {*1}
    </p>
<p>
      When it had become definitely known that such was the enormous wealth
      inherited, there were, of course, many speculations as to the mode of its
      disposal. The gigantic magnitude and the immediately available nature of
      the sum, dazzled and bewildered all who thought upon the topic. The
      possessor of any appreciable amount of money might have been imagined to
      perform any one of a thousand things. With riches merely surpassing those
      of any citizen, it would have been easy to suppose him engaging to supreme
      excess in the fashionable extravagances of his time; or busying himself
      with political intrigues; or aiming at ministerial power, or purchasing
      increase of nobility, or devising gorgeous architectural piles; or
      collecting large specimens of Virtu; or playing the munificent patron of
      Letters and Art; or endowing and bestowing his name upon extensive
      institutions of charity. But, for the inconceivable wealth in the actual
      possession of the young heir, these objects and all ordinary objects were
      felt to be inadequate. Recourse was had to figures; and figures but
      sufficed to confound. It was seen, that even at three per cent, the annual
      income of the inheritance amounted to no less than thirteen millions and
      five hundred thousand dollars; which was one million and one hundred and
      twenty-five thousand per month; or thirty-six thousand, nine hundred and
      eighty-six per day, or one thousand five hundred and forty-one per hour,
      or six and twenty dollars for every minute that flew. Thus the usual track
      of supposition was thoroughly broken up. Men knew not what to imagine.
      There were some who even conceived that Mr. Ellison would divest himself
      forthwith of at least two-thirds of his fortune as of utterly superfluous
      opulence; enriching whole troops of his relatives by division of his
      superabundance.
    </p>
<p>
      I was not surprised, however, to perceive that he had long made up his
      mind upon a topic which had occasioned so much of discussion to his
      friends. Nor was I greatly astonished at the nature of his decision. In
      the widest and noblest sense, he was a poet. He comprehended, moreover,
      the true character, the august aims, the supreme majesty and dignity of
      the poetic sentiment. The proper gratification of the sentiment he
      instinctively felt to lie in the creation of novel forms of Beauty. Some
      peculiarities, either in his early education, or in the nature of his
      intellect, had tinged with what is termed materialism the whole cast of
      his ethical speculations; and it was this bias, perhaps, which
      imperceptibly led him to perceive that the most advantageous, if not the
      sole legitimate field for the exercise of the poetic sentiment, was to be
      found in the creation of novel moods of purely physical loveliness. Thus
      it happened that he became neither musician nor poet; if we use this
      latter term in its every—day acceptation. Or it might have been that
      he became neither the one nor the other, in pursuance of an idea of his
      which I have already mentioned—the idea, that in the contempt of
      ambition lay one of the essential principles of happiness on earth. Is it
      not, indeed, possible that while a high order of genius is necessarily
      ambitious, the highest is invariably above that which is termed ambition?
      And may it not thus happen that many far greater than Milton, have
      contentedly remained “mute and inglorious?” I believe the
      world has never yet seen, and that, unless through some series of
      accidents goading the noblest order of mind into distasteful exertion, the
      world will never behold, that full extent of triumphant execution, in the
      richer productions of Art, of which the human nature is absolutely
      capable.
    </p>
<p>
      Mr. Ellison became neither musician nor poet; although no man lived more
      profoundly enamored both of Music and the Muse. Under other circumstances
      than those which invested him, it is not impossible that he would have
      become a painter. The field of sculpture, although in its nature rigidly
      poetical, was too limited in its extent and in its consequences, to have
      occupied, at any time, much of his attention. And I have now mentioned all
      the provinces in which even the most liberal understanding of the poetic
      sentiment has declared this sentiment capable of expatiating. I mean the
      most liberal public or recognized conception of the idea involved in the
      phrase “poetic sentiment.” But Mr. Ellison imagined that the
      richest, and altogether the most natural and most suitable province, had
      been blindly neglected. No definition had spoken of the
      Landscape-Gardener, as of the poet; yet my friend could not fail to
      perceive that the creation of the Landscape-Garden offered to the true
      muse the most magnificent of opportunities. Here was, indeed, the fairest
      field for the display of invention, or imagination, in the endless
      combining of forms of novel Beauty; the elements which should enter into
      combination being, at all times, and by a vast superiority, the most
      glorious which the earth could afford. In the multiform of the tree, and
      in the multicolor of the flower, he recognized the most direct and the
      most energetic efforts of Nature at physical loveliness. And in the
      direction or concentration of this effort, or, still more properly, in its
      adaption to the eyes which were to behold it upon earth, he perceived that
      he should be employing the best means—laboring to the greatest
      advantage—in the fulfilment of his destiny as Poet.
    </p>
<p>
      “Its adaptation to the eyes which were to behold it upon earth.”
      In his explanation of this phraseology, Mr. Ellison did much towards
      solving what has always seemed to me an enigma. I mean the fact (which
      none but the ignorant dispute,) that no such combinations of scenery exist
      in Nature as the painter of genius has in his power to produce. No such
      Paradises are to be found in reality as have glowed upon the canvass of
      Claude. In the most enchanting of natural landscapes, there will always be
      found a defect or an excess—many excesses and defects. While the
      component parts may exceed, individually, the highest skill of the artist,
      the arrangement of the parts will always be susceptible of improvement. In
      short, no position can be attained, from which an artistical eye, looking
      steadily, will not find matter of offence, in what is technically termed
      the composition of a natural landscape. And yet how unintelligible is
      this! In all other matters we are justly instructed to regard Nature as
      supreme. With her details we shrink from competition. Who shall presume to
      imitate the colors of the tulip, or to improve the proportions of the lily
      of the valley? The criticism which says, of sculpture or of portraiture,
      that “Nature is to be exalted rather than imitated,” is in
      error. No pictorial or sculptural combinations of points of human
      loveliness, do more than approach the living and breathing human beauty as
      it gladdens our daily path. Byron, who often erred, erred not in saying, I’ve
      seen more living beauty, ripe and real, than all the nonsense of their
      stone ideal. In landscape alone is the principle of the critic true; and,
      having felt its truth here, it is but the headlong spirit of
      generalization which has induced him to pronounce it true throughout all
      the domains of Art. Having, I say, felt its truth here. For the feeling is
      no affectation or chimera. The mathematics afford no more absolute
      demonstrations, than the sentiment of his Art yields to the artist. He not
      only believes, but positively knows, that such and such apparently
      arbitrary arrangements of matter, or form, constitute, and alone
      constitute, the true Beauty. Yet his reasons have not yet been matured
      into expression. It remains for a more profound analysis than the world
      has yet seen, fully to investigate and express them. Nevertheless is he
      confirmed in his instinctive opinions, by the concurrence of all his
      compeers. Let a composition be defective, let an emendation be wrought in
      its mere arrangement of form; let this emendation be submitted to every
      artist in the world; by each will its necessity be admitted. And even far
      more than this, in remedy of the defective composition, each insulated
      member of the fraternity will suggest the identical emendation.
    </p>
<p>
      I repeat that in landscape arrangements, or collocations alone, is the
      physical Nature susceptible of “exaltation” and that,
      therefore, her susceptibility of improvement at this one point, was a
      mystery which, hitherto I had been unable to solve. It was Mr. Ellison who
      first suggested the idea that what we regarded as improvement or
      exaltation of the natural beauty, was really such, as respected only the
      mortal or human point of view; that each alteration or disturbance of the
      primitive scenery might possibly effect a blemish in the picture, if we
      could suppose this picture viewed at large from some remote point in the
      heavens. “It is easily understood,” says Mr. Ellison, “that
      what might improve a closely scrutinized detail, might, at the same time,
      injure a general and more distantly—observed effect.” He spoke
      upon this topic with warmth: regarding not so much its immediate or
      obvious importance, (which is little,) as the character of the conclusions
      to which it might lead, or of the collateral propositions which it might
      serve to corroborate or sustain. There might be a class of beings, human
      once, but now to humanity invisible, for whose scrutiny and for whose
      refined appreciation of the beautiful, more especially than for our own,
      had been set in order by God the great landscape-garden of the whole
      earth.
    </p>
<p>
      In the course of our discussion, my young friend took occasion to quote
      some passages from a writer who has been supposed to have well treated
      this theme.
    </p>
<p>
      “There are, properly,” he writes, “but two styles of
      landscape-gardening, the natural and the artificial. One seeks to recall
      the original beauty of the country, by adapting its means to the
      surrounding scenery; cultivating trees in harmony with the hills or plain
      of the neighboring land; detecting and bringing into practice those nice
      relations of size, proportion and color which, hid from the common
      observer, are revealed everywhere to the experienced student of nature.
      The result of the natural style of gardening, is seen rather in the
      absence of all defects and incongruities—in the prevalence of a
      beautiful harmony and order, than in the creation of any special wonders
      or miracles. The artificial style has as many varieties as there are
      different tastes to gratify. It has a certain general relation to the
      various styles of building. There are the stately avenues and retirements
      of Versailles; Italian terraces; and a various mixed old English style,
      which bears some relation to the domestic Gothic or English Elizabethan
      architecture. Whatever may be said against the abuses of the artificial
      landscape-gardening, a mixture of pure art in a garden scene, adds to it a
      great beauty. This is partly pleasing to the eye, by the show of order and
      design, and partly moral. A terrace, with an old moss-covered balustrade,
      calls up at once to the eye, the fair forms that have passed there in
      other days. The slightest exhibition of art is an evidence of care and
      human interest.”
    </p>
<p>
      “From what I have already observed,” said Mr. Ellison, “you
      will understand that I reject the idea, here expressed, of ‘recalling
      the original beauty of the country.’ The original beauty is never so
      great as that which may be introduced. Of course, much depends upon the
      selection of a spot with capabilities. What is said in respect to the
      ‘detecting and bringing into practice those nice relations of size,
      proportion and color,’ is a mere vagueness of speech, which may mean
      much, or little, or nothing, and which guides in no degree. That the true
      ‘result of the natural style of gardening is seen rather in the
      absence of all defects and incongruities, than in the creation of any
      special wonders or miracles,’ is a proposition better suited to the
      grovelling apprehension of the herd, than to the fervid dreams of the man
      of genius. The merit suggested is, at best, negative, and appertains to
      that hobbling criticism which, in letters, would elevate Addison into
      apotheosis. In truth, while that merit which consists in the mere avoiding
      demerit, appeals directly to the understanding, and can thus be
      foreshadowed in Rule, the loftier merit, which breathes and flames in
      invention or creation, can be apprehended solely in its results. Rule
      applies but to the excellences of avoidance—to the virtues which
      deny or refrain. Beyond these the critical art can but suggest. We may be
      instructed to build an Odyssey, but it is in vain that we are told how to
      conceive a ‘Tempest,’ an ‘Inferno,’ a ‘Prometheus
      Bound,’ a ‘Nightingale,’ such as that of Keats, or the
      ‘Sensitive Plant’ of Shelley. But, the thing done, the wonder
      accomplished, and the capacity for apprehension becomes universal. The
      sophists of the negative school, who, through inability to create, have
      scoffed at creation, are now found the loudest in applause. What, in its
      chrysalis condition of principle, affronted their demure reason, never
      fails, in its maturity of accomplishment, to extort admiration from their
      instinct of the beautiful or of the sublime.
    </p>
<p>
      “Our author’s observations on the artificial style of
      gardening,” continued Mr. Ellison, “are less objectionable.
      ‘A mixture of pure art in a garden scene, adds to it a great beauty.’
      This is just; and the reference to the sense of human interest is equally
      so. I repeat that the principle here expressed, is incontrovertible; but
      there may be something even beyond it. There may be an object in full
      keeping with the principle suggested—an object unattainable by the
      means ordinarily in possession of mankind, yet which, if attained, would
      lend a charm to the landscape-garden immeasurably surpassing that which a
      merely human interest could bestow. The true poet possessed of very
      unusual pecuniary resources, might possibly, while retaining the necessary
      idea of art or interest or culture, so imbue his designs at once with
      extent and novelty of Beauty, as to convey the sentiment of spiritual
      interference. It will be seen that, in bringing about such result, he
      secures all the advantages of interest or design, while relieving his work
      of all the harshness and technicality of Art. In the most rugged of
      wildernesses—in the most savage of the scenes of pure Nature—there
      is apparent the art of a Creator; yet is this art apparent only to
      reflection; in no respect has it the obvious force of a feeling. Now, if
      we imagine this sense of the Almighty Design to be harmonized in a
      measurable degree, if we suppose a landscape whose combined strangeness,
      vastness, definitiveness, and magnificence, shall inspire the idea of
      culture, or care, or superintendence, on the part of intelligences
      superior yet akin to humanity—then the sentiment of interest is
      preserved, while the Art is made to assume the air of an intermediate or
      secondary Nature—a Nature which is not God, nor an emanation of God,
      but which still is Nature, in the sense that it is the handiwork of the
      angels that hover between man and God.”
    </p>
<p>
      It was in devoting his gigantic wealth to the practical embodiment of a
      vision such as this—in the free exercise in the open air, which
      resulted from personal direction of his plans—in the continuous and
      unceasing object which these plans afford—in the contempt of
      ambition which it enabled him more to feel than to affect—and,
      lastly, it was in the companionship and sympathy of a devoted wife, that
      Ellison thought to find, and found, an exemption from the ordinary cares
      of Humanity, with a far greater amount of positive happiness than ever
      glowed in the rapt day-dreams of De Stael.
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2150link2H_4_0018">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      MAELZEL’S CHESS-PLAYER
    </h2>
<p>
      PERHAPS no exhibition of the kind has ever elicited so general attention
      as the Chess-Player of Maelzel. Wherever seen it has been an object of
      intense curiosity, to all persons who think. Yet the question of its <i>modus
      operandi is </i>still undetermined. Nothing has been written on this topic
      which can be considered as decisive—and accordingly we find every
      where men of mechanical genius, of great general acuteness, and
      discriminative understanding, who make no scruple in pronouncing the
      Automaton a <i>pure machine, </i>unconnected with human agency in its
      movements, and consequently, beyond all comparison, the most astonishing
      of the inventions of mankind. And such it would undoubtedly be, were they
      right in their supposition. Assuming this hypothesis, it would be grossly
      absurd to compare with the Chess-Player, any similar thing of either
      modern or ancient days. Yet there have been many and wonderful automata.
      In Brewster’s Letters on Natural Magic, we have an account of the
      most remarkable. Among these may be mentioned, as having beyond doubt
      existed, firstly, the coach invented by M. Camus for the amusement of
      Louis XIV when a child. A table, about four feet square, was introduced,
      into the room appropriated for the exhibition. Upon this table was placed
      a carriage, six inches in length, made of wood, and drawn by two horses of
      the same material. One window being down, a lady was seen on the back
      seat. A coachman held the reins on the box, and a footman and page were in
      their places behind. M. Camus now touched a spring; whereupon the coachman
      smacked his whip, and the horses proceeded in a natural manner, along the
      edge of the table, drawing after them the carriage. Having gone as far as
      possible in this direction, a sudden turn was made to the left, and the
      vehicle was driven at right angles to its former course, and still closely
      along the edge of the table. In this way the coach proceeded until it
      arrived opposite the chair of the young prince. It then stopped, the page
      descended and opened the door, the lady alighted, and presented a petition
      to her sovereign. She then re-entered. The page put up the steps, closed
      the door, and resumed his station. The coachman whipped his horses, and
      the carriage was driven back to its original position.
    </p>
<p>
      The magician of M. Maillardet is also worthy of notice. We copy the
      following account of it from the <i>Letters </i>before mentioned of Dr.
      B., who derived his information principally from the Edinburgh
      Encyclopaedia.
    </p>
<p>
      “One of the most popular pieces of mechanism which we have seen, Is
      the Magician constructed by M. Maillardet, for the purpose of answering
      certain given questions. A figure, dressed like a magician, appears seated
      at the bottom of a wall, holding a wand in one hand, and a book in the
      other A number of questions, ready prepared, are inscribed on oval
      medallions, and the spectator takes any of these he chooses and to which
      he wishes an answer, and having placed it in a drawer ready to receive it,
      the drawer shuts with a spring till the answer is returned. The magician
      then arises from his seat, bows his head, describes circles with his wand,
      and consulting the book as If in deep thought, he lifts it towards his
      face. Having thus appeared to ponder over the proposed question he raises
      his wand, and striking with it the wall above his head, two folding doors
      fly open, and display an appropriate answer to the question. The doors
      again close, the magician resumes his original position, and the drawer
      opens to return the medallion. There are twenty of these medallions, all
      containing different questions, to which the magician returns the most
      suitable and striking answers. The medallions are thin plates of brass, of
      an elliptical form, exactly resembling each other. Some of the medallions
      have a question inscribed on each side, both of which the magician
      answered in succession. If the drawer is shut without a medallion being
      put into it, the magician rises, consults his book, shakes his head, and
      resumes his seat. The folding doors remain shut, and the drawer is
      returned empty. If two medallions are put into the drawer together, an
      answer is returned only to the lower one. When the machinery is wound up,
      the movements continue about an hour, during which time about fifty
      questions may be answered. The inventor stated that the means by which the
      different medallions acted upon the machinery, so as to produce the proper
      answers to the questions which they contained, were extremely simple.”
    </p>
<p>
      The duck of Vaucanson was still more remarkable. It was <i>of </i>the size
      of life, and so perfect an imitation of the living animal that all the
      spectators were deceived. It executed, says Brewster, all the natural
      movements and gestures, it ate and drank with avidity, performed all the
      quick motions of the head and throat which are peculiar to the duck, and
      like it muddled the water which it drank with its bill. It produced also
      the sound of quacking in the most natural manner. In the anatomical
      structure the artist exhibited the highest skill. Every bone in the real
      duck had its representative In the automaton, and its wings were
      anatomically exact. Every cavity, apophysis, and curvature was imitated,
      and each bone executed its proper movements. When corn was thrown down
      before it, the duck stretched out its neck to pick it up, swallowed, and
      digested it. {*1}
    </p>
<p>
      But if these machines were ingenious, what shall we think of the
      calculating machine of Mr. Babbage? What shall we think of an engine of
      wood and metal which can not only compute astronomical and navigation
      tables to any given extent, but render the exactitude of its operations
      mathematically certain through its power of correcting its possible
      errors? What shall we think of a machine which can not only accomplish all
      this, but actually print off its elaborate results, when obtained, without
      the slightest intervention of the intellect of man? It will, perhaps, be
      said, in reply, that a machine such as we have described is altogether
      above comparison with the Chess-Player of Maelzel. By no means—it is
      altogether beneath it—that is to say provided we assume (what should
      never for a moment be assumed) that the Chess-Player is a <i>pure machine,
      </i>and performs its operations without any immediate human agency.
      Arithmetical or algebraical calculations are, from their very nature,
      fixed and determinate. Certain <i>data </i>being given, certain results
      necessarily and inevitably follow. These results have dependence upon
      nothing, and are influenced by nothing but the <i>data </i>originally
      given. And the question to be solved proceeds, or should proceed, to its
      final determination, by a succession of unerring steps liable to no
      change, and subject to no modification. This being the case, we can
      without difficulty conceive the <i>possibility </i>of so arranging a piece
      of mechanism, that upon starting In accordance with the <i>data </i>of the
      question to be solved, it should continue its movements regularly,
      progressively, and undeviatingly towards the required solution, since
      these movements, however complex, are never imagined to be otherwise than
      finite and determinate. But the case is widely different with the
      Chess-Player. With him there is no determinate progression. No one move in
      chess necessarily follows upon any one other. From no particular
      disposition of the men at one period of a game can we predicate their
      disposition at a different period. Let us place the <i>first move </i>in a
      game of chess, in juxta-position with the <i>data </i>of an algebraical
      question, and their great difference will be immediately perceived. From
      the latter—from the <i>data—</i>the second step of the
      question, dependent thereupon, inevitably follows. It is modelled by the
      <i>data. </i>It must be <i>thus </i>and not otherwise. But from the first
      move in the game of chess no especial second move follows of necessity. In
      the algebraical question, as it proceeds towards solution, the <i>certainty
      </i>of its operations remains altogether unimpaired. The second step
      having been a consequence of the <i>data, </i>the third step is equally a
      consequence of the second, the fourth of the third, the fifth of the
      fourth, and so on, <i>and not possibly otherwise, </i>to the end. But in
      proportion to the progress made in a game of chess, is the <i>uncertainty
      </i>of each ensuing move. A few moves having been made, <i>no </i>step is
      certain. Different spectators of the game would advise different moves.
      All is then dependent upon the variable judgment of the players. Now even
      granting (what should not be granted) that the movements of the Automaton
      Chess-Player were in themselves determinate, they would be necessarily
      interrupted and disarranged by the indeterminate will of his antagonist.
      There is then no analogy whatever between the operations of the
      Chess-Player, and those of the calculating machine of Mr. Babbage, and if
      we choose to call the former a <i>pure machine </i>we must be prepared to
      admit that it is, beyond all comparison, the most wonderful of the
      inventions of mankind. Its original projector, however, Baron Kempelen,
      had no scruple in declaring it to be a “very ordinary piece of
      mechanism—a <i>bagatelle </i>whose effects appeared so marvellous
      only from the boldness of the conception, and the fortunate choice of the
      methods adopted for promoting the illusion.” But it is needless to
      dwell upon this point. It is quite certain that the operations of the
      Automaton are regulated by <i>mind, </i>and by nothing else. Indeed this
      matter is susceptible of a mathematical demonstration, <i>a priori. </i>The
      only question then is of the <i>manner </i>in which human agency is
      brought to bear. Before entering upon this subject it would be as well to
      give a brief history and description of the Chess-Player for the benefit
      of such of our readers as may never have had an opportunity of witnessing
      Mr. Maelzel’s exhibition.
    </p>
<p>
      The Automaton Chess-Player was invented in 1769, by Baron Kempelen, a
      nobleman of Presburg, in Hungary, who afterwards disposed of it, together
      with the secret of its operations, to its present possessor. {2*} Soon
      after its completion it was exhibited in Presburg, Paris, Vienna, and
      other continental cities. In 1783 and 1784, it was taken to London by Mr.
      Maelzel. Of late years it has visited the principal towns in the United
      States. Wherever seen, the most intense curiosity was excited by its
      appearance, and numerous have been the attempts, by men of all classes, to
      fathom the mystery of its evolutions. The cut on this page gives a
      tolerable representation of the figure as seen by the citizens of Richmond
      a few weeks ago. The right arm, however, should lie more at length upon
      the box, a chess-board should appear upon it, and the cushion should not
      be seen while the pipe is held. Some immaterial alterations have been made
      in the costume of the player since it came into the possession of Maelzel—the
      plume, for example, was not originally worn. {image of automaton}
    </p>
<p>
      At the hour appointed for exhibition, a curtain is withdrawn, or folding
      doors are thrown open, and the machine rolled to within about twelve feet
      of the nearest of the spectators, between whom and it (the machine) a rope
      is stretched. A figure is seen habited as a Turk, and seated, with its
      legs crossed, at a large box apparently of maple wood, which serves it as
      a table. The exhibiter will, if requested, roll the machine to any portion
      of the room, suffer it to remain altogether on any designated spot, or
      even shift its location repeatedly during the progress of a game. The
      bottom of the box is elevated considerably above the floor by means of the
      castors or brazen rollers on which it moves, a clear view of the surface
      immediately beneath the Automaton being thus afforded to the spectators.
      The chair on which the figure sits is affixed permanently to the box. On
      the top of this latter is a chess-board, also permanently affixed. The
      right arm of the Chess-Player is extended at full length before him, at
      right angles with his body, and lying, in an apparently careless position,
      by the side of the board. The back of the hand is upwards. The board
      itself is eighteen inches square. The left arm of the figure is bent at
      the elbow, and in the left hand is a pipe. A green drapery conceals the
      back of the Turk, and falls partially over the front of both shoulders. To
      judge from the external appearance of the box, it is divided into five
      compartments—three cupboards of equal dimensions, and two drawers
      occupying that portion of the chest lying beneath the cupboards. The
      foregoing observations apply to the appearance of the Automaton upon its
      first introduction into the presence of the spectators.
    </p>
<p>
      Maelzel now informs the company that he will disclose to their view the
      mechanism of the machine. Taking from his pocket a bunch of keys he
      unlocks with one of them, door marked ~ in the cut above, and throws the
      cupboard fully open to the inspection of all present. Its whole interior
      is apparently filled with wheels, pinions, levers, and other machinery,
      crowded very closely together, so that the eye can penetrate but a little
      distance into the mass. Leaving this door open to its full extent, he goes
      now round to the back of the box, and raising the drapery of the figure,
      opens another door situated precisely in the rear of the one first opened.
      Holding a lighted candle at this door, and shifting the position of the
      whole machine repeatedly at the same time, a bright light is thrown
      entirely through the cupboard, which is now clearly seen to be full,
      completely full, of machinery. The spectators being satisfied of this
      fact, Maelzel closes the back door, locks it, takes the key from the lock,
      lets fall the drapery of the figure, and comes round to the front. The
      door marked I, it will be remembered, is still open. The exhibiter now
      proceeds to open the drawer which lies beneath the cupboards at the bottom
      of the box—for although there are apparently two drawers, there is
      really only one—the two handles and two key holes being intended
      merely for ornament. Having opened this drawer to its full extent, a small
      cushion, and a set of chessmen, fixed in a frame work made to support them
      perpendicularly, are discovered. Leaving this drawer, as well as cupboard
      No. 1 open, Maelzel now unlocks door No. 2, and door No. 3, which are
      discovered to be folding doors, opening into one and the same compartment.
      To the right of this compartment, however, (that is to say the spectators’
      right) a small division, six inches wide, and filled with machinery, is
      partitioned off. The main compartment itself (in speaking of that portion
      of the box visible upon opening doors 2 and 3, we shall always call it the
      main compartment) is lined with dark cloth and contains no machinery
      whatever beyond two pieces of steel, quadrant-shaped, and situated one in
      each of the rear top corners of the compartment. A small protuberance
      about eight inches square, and also covered with dark cloth, lies on the
      floor of the compartment near the rear corner on the spectators’
      left hand. Leaving doors No. 2 and No. 3 open as well as the drawer, and
      door No. I, the exhibiter now goes round to the back of the main
      compartment, and, unlocking another door there, displays clearly all the
      interior of the main compartment, by introducing a candle behind it and
      within it. The whole box being thus apparently disclosed to the scrutiny
      of the company, Maelzel, still leaving the doors and drawer open, rolls
      the Automaton entirely round, and exposes the back of the Turk by lifting
      up the drapery. A door about ten inches square is thrown open in the loins
      of the figure, and a smaller one also in the left thigh. The interior of
      the figure, as seen through these apertures, appears to be crowded with
      machinery. In general, every spectator is now thoroughly satisfied of
      having beheld and completely scrutinized, at one and the same time, every
      individual portion of the Automaton, and the idea of any person being
      concealed in the interior, during so complete an exhibition of that
      interior, if ever entertained, is immediately dismissed as preposterous in
      the extreme.
    </p>
<p>
      M. Maelzel, having rolled the machine back into its original position, now
      informs the company that the Automaton will play a game of chess with any
      one disposed to encounter him. This challenge being accepted, a small
      table is prepared for the antagonist, and placed close by the rope, but on
      the spectators’ side of it, and so situated as not to prevent the
      company from obtaining a full view of the Automaton. From a drawer in this
      table is taken a set of chess-men, and Maelzel arranges them generally,
      but not always, with his own hands, on the chess board, which consists
      merely of the usual number of squares painted upon the table. The
      antagonist having taken his seat, the exhibiter approaches the drawer of
      the box, and takes therefrom the cushion, which, after removing the pipe
      from the hand of the Automaton, he places under its left arm as a support.
      Then taking also from the drawer the Automaton’s set of chess-men,
      he arranges them upon the chessboard before the figure. He now proceeds to
      close the doors and to lock them—leaving the bunch of keys in door
      No. 1. He also closes the drawer, and, finally, winds up the machine, by
      applying a key to an aperture in the left end (the spectators’ left)
      of the box. The game now commences—the Automaton taking the first
      move. The duration of the contest is usually limited to half an hour, but
      if it be not finished at the expiration of this period, and the antagonist
      still contend that he can beat the Automaton, M. Maelzel has seldom any
      objection to continue it. Not to weary the company, is the ostensible, and
      no doubt the real object of the limitation. It Wits of course be
      understood that when a move is made at his own table, by the antagonist,
      the corresponding move is made at the box of the Automaton, by Maelzel
      himself, who then acts as the representative of the antagonist. On the
      other hand, when the Turk moves, the corresponding move is made at the
      table of the antagonist, also by M. Maelzel, who then acts as the
      representative of the Automaton. In this manner it is necessary that the
      exhibiter should often pass from one table to the other. He also
      frequently goes in rear of the figure to remove the chess-men which it has
      taken, and which it deposits, when taken, on the box to the left (to its
      own left) of the board. When the Automaton hesitates in relation to its
      move, the exhibiter is occasionally seen to place himself very near its
      right side, and to lay his hand, now and then, in a careless manner upon
      the box. He has also a peculiar shuffle with his feet, calculated to
      induce suspicion of collusion with the machine in minds which are more
      cunning than sagacious. These peculiarities are, no doubt, mere mannerisms
      of M. Maelzel, or, if he is aware of them at all, he puts them in practice
      with a view of exciting in the spectators a false idea of the pure
      mechanism in the Automaton.
    </p>
<p>
      The Turk plays with his left hand. All the movements of the arm are at
      right angles. In this manner, the hand (which is gloved and bent in a
      natural way,) being brought directly above the piece to be moved, descends
      finally upon it, the fingers receiving it, in most cases, without
      difficulty. Occasionally, however, when the piece is not precisely in its
      proper situation, the Automaton fails in his attempt at seizing it. When
      this occurs, no second effort is made, but the arm continues its movement
      in the direction originally intended, precisely as if the piece were in
      the fingers. Having thus designated the spot whither the move should have
      been made, the arm returns to its cushion, and Maelzel performs the
      evolution which the Automaton pointed out. At every movement of the figure
      machinery is heard in motion. During the progress of the game, the figure
      now and then rolls its eyes, as if surveying the board, moves its head,
      and pronounces the word <i>echec </i>(check) when necessary. {*3} If a
      false move be made by his antagonist, he raps briskly on the box with the
      fingers of his right hand, shakes his head roughly, and replacing the
      piece falsely moved, in its former situation, assumes the next move
      himself. Upon beating the game, he waves his head with an air of triumph,
      looks round complacently upon the spectators, and drawing his left arm
      farther back than usual, suffers his fingers alone to rest upon the
      cushion. In general, the Turk is victorious—once or twice he has
      been beaten. The game being ended, Maelzel will again if desired, exhibit
      the mechanism of the box, in the same manner as before. The machine is
      then rolled back, and a curtain hides it from the view of the company.
    </p>
<p>
      There have been many attempts at solving the mystery of the Automaton. The
      most general opinion in relation to it, an opinion too not unfrequently
      adopted by men who should have known better, was, as we have before said,
      that no immediate human agency was employed—in other words, that the
      machine was purely a machine and nothing else. Many, however maintained
      that the exhibiter himself regulated the movements of the figure by
      mechanical means operating through the feet of the box. Others again,
      spoke confidently of a magnet. Of the first of these opinions we shall say
      nothing at present more than we have already said. In relation to the
      second it is only necessary to repeat what we have before stated, that the
      machine is rolled about on castors, and will, at the request of a
      spectator, be moved to and fro to any portion of the room, even during the
      progress of a game. The supposition of the magnet is also untenable—for
      if a magnet were the agent, any other magnet in the pocket of a spectator
      would disarrange the entire mechanism. The exhibiter, however, will suffer
      the most powerful loadstone to remain even upon the box during the whole
      of the exhibition.
    </p>
<p>
      The first attempt at a written explanation of the secret, at least the
      first attempt of which we ourselves have any knowledge, was made in a
      large pamphlet printed at Paris in 1785. The author’s hypothesis
      amounted to this—that a dwarf actuated the machine. This dwarf he
      supposed to conceal himself during the opening of the box by thrusting his
      legs into two hollow cylinders, which were represented to be (but which
      are not) among the machinery in the cupboard No. I, while his body was out
      of the box entirely, and covered by the drapery of the Turk. When the
      doors were shut, the dwarf was enabled to bring his body within the box—the
      noise produced by some portion of the machinery allowing him to do so
      unheard, and also to close the door by which he entered. The interior of
      the automaton being then exhibited, and no person discovered, the
      spectators, says the author of this pamphlet, are satisfied that no one is
      within any portion of the machine. This whole hypothesis was too obviously
      absurd to require comment, or refutation, and accordingly we find that it
      attracted very little attention.
    </p>
<p>
      In 1789 a book was published at Dresden by M. I. F. Freyhere in which
      another endeavor was made to unravel the mystery. Mr. Freyhere’s
      book was a pretty large one, and copiously illustrated by colored
      engravings. His supposition was that “a well-taught boy very thin
      and tall of his age (sufficiently so that he could be concealed in a
      drawer almost immediately under the chess-board”) played the game of
      chess and effected all the evolutions of the Automaton. This idea,
      although even more silly than that of the Parisian author, met with a
      better reception, and was in some measure believed to be the true solution
      of the wonder, until the inventor put an end to the discussion by
      suffering a close examination of the top of the box.
    </p>
<p>
      These bizarre attempts at explanation were followed by others equally
      bizarre. Of late years however, an anonymous writer, by a course of
      reasoning exceedingly unphilosophical, has contrived to blunder upon a
      plausible solution—although we cannot consider it altogether the
      true one. His Essay was first published in a Baltimore weekly paper, was
      illustrated by cuts, and was entitled “An attempt to analyze the
      Automaton Chess-Player of M. Maelzel.” This Essay we suppose to have
      been the original of the <i>pamphlet to </i>which Sir David Brewster
      alludes in his letters on Natural Magic, and which he has no hesitation in
      declaring a thorough and satisfactory explanation. The <i>results </i>of
      the analysis are undoubtedly, in the main, just; but we can only account
      for Brewster’s pronouncing the Essay a thorough and satisfactory
      explanation, by supposing him to have bestowed upon it a very cursory and
      inattentive perusal. In the compendium of the Essay, made use of in the
      Letters on Natural Magic, it is quite impossible to arrive at any distinct
      conclusion in regard to the adequacy or inadequacy of the analysis, on
      account of the gross misarrangement and deficiency of the letters of
      reference employed. The same fault is to be found in the “Attempt
      &amp;c.,” as we originally saw it. The solution consists in a series
      of minute explanations, (accompanied by wood-cuts, the whole occupying
      many pages) in which the object is to show the <i>possibility </i>of <i>so
      shifting the partitions </i>of the box, as to allow a human being,
      concealed in the interior, to move portions of his body from one part of
      the box to another, during the exhibition of the mechanism—thus
      eluding the scrutiny of the spectators. There can be no doubt, as we have
      before observed, and as we will presently endeavor to show, that the
      principle, or rather the result, of this solution is the true one. Some
      person is concealed in the box during the whole time of exhibiting the
      interior. We object, however, to the whole verbose description of the <i>manner
      </i>in which the partitions are shifted, to accommodate the movements of
      the person concealed. We object to it as a mere theory assumed in the
      first place, and to which circumstances are afterwards made to adapt
      themselves. It was not, and could not have been, arrived at by any
      inductive reasoning. In whatever way the shifting is managed, it is of
      course concealed at every step from observation. To show that certain
      movements might possibly be effected in a certain way, is very far from
      showing that they are actually so effected. There may be an infinity of
      other methods by which the same results may be obtained. The probability
      of the one assumed proving the correct one is then as unity to infinity.
      But, in reality, this particular point, the shifting of the partitions, is
      of no consequence whatever. It was altogether unnecessary to devote seven
      or eight pages for the purpose of proving what no one in his senses would
      deny—viz: that the wonderful mechanical genius of Baron Kempelen
      could invent the necessary means for shutting a door or slipping aside a
      pannel, with a human agent too at his service in actual contact with the
      pannel or the door, and the whole operations carried on, as the author of
      the Essay himself shows, and as we shall attempt to show more fully
      hereafter, entirely out of reach of the observation of the spectators.
    </p>
<p>
      In attempting ourselves an explanation of the Automaton, we will, in the
      first place, endeavor to show how its operations are effected, and
      afterwards describe, as briefly as possible, the nature of the <i>observations
      </i>from which we have deduced our result.
    </p>
<p>
      It will be necessary for a proper understanding of the subject, that we
      repeat here in a few words, the routine adopted by the exhibiter in
      disclosing the interior of the box—a routine from which he <i>never
      </i>deviates in any material particular. In the first place he opens the
      door No. I. Leaving this open, he goes round to the rear of the box, and
      opens a door precisely at the back of door No. I. To this back door he
      holds a lighted candle. He then <i>closes the back door, </i>locks it,
      and, coming round to the front, opens the drawer to its full extent. This
      done, he opens the doors No. 2 and No. 3, (the folding doors) and displays
      the interior of the main compartment. Leaving open the main compartment,
      the drawer, and the front door of cupboard No. I, he now goes to the rear
      again, and throws open the back door of the main compartment. In shutting
      up the box no particular order is observed, except that the folding doors
      are always closed before the drawer.
    </p>
<p>
      Now, let us suppose that when the machine is first rolled into the
      presence of the spectators, a man is already within it. His body is
      situated behind the dense machinery in cupboard No. T. (the rear portion
      of which machinery is so contrived as to slip <i>en masse, </i>from the
      main compartment to the cupboard No. I, as occasion may require,) and his
      legs lie at full length in the main compartment. When Maelzel opens the
      door No. I, the man within is not in any danger of discovery, for the
      keenest eye cannot penetrate more than about two inches into the darkness
      within. But the case is otherwise when the back door of the cupboard No.
      I, is opened. A bright light then pervades the cupboard, and the body of
      the man would be discovered if it were there. But it is not. The putting
      the key in the lock of the back door was a signal on hearing which the
      person concealed brought his body forward to an angle as acute as possible—throwing
      it altogether, or nearly so, into the main compartment. This, however, is
      a painful position, and cannot be long maintained. Accordingly we find
      that Maelzel <i>closes the back door. </i>This being done, there is no
      reason why the body of the man may not resume its former situation—for
      the cupboard is again so dark as to defy scrutiny. The drawer is now
      opened, and the legs of the person within drop down behind it in the space
      it formerly occupied. {*4} There is, consequently, now no longer any part
      of the man in the main compartment—his body being behind the
      machinery in cupboard No. 1, and his legs in the space occupied by the
      drawer. The exhibiter, therefore, finds himself at liberty to display the
      main compartment. This he does—opening both its back and front doors—and
      no person Is discovered. The spectators are now satisfied that the whole
      of the box is exposed to view—and exposed too, all portions of it at
      one and the same time. But of course this is not the case. They neither
      see the space behind the drawer, nor the interior of cupboard No. 1—the
      front door of which latter the exhibiter virtually shuts in shutting its
      back door. Maelzel, having now rolled the machine around, lifted up the
      drapery of the Turk, opened the doors in his back and thigh, and shown his
      trunk to be full of machinery, brings the whole back into its original
      position, and closes the doors. The man within is now at liberty to move
      about. He gets up into the body of the Turk just so high as to bring his
      eyes above the level of the chess-board. It is very probable that he seats
      himself upon the little square block or protuberance which is seen in a
      corner of the main compartment when the doors are open. In this position
      he sees the chess-board through the bosom of the Turk which is of gauze.
      Bringing his right arm across his breast he actuates the little machinery
      necessary to guide the left arm and the fingers of the figure. This
      machinery is situated just beneath the left shoulder of the Turk, and is
      consequently easily reached by the right hand of the man concealed, if we
      suppose his right arm brought across the breast. The motions of the head
      and eyes, and of the right arm of the figure, as well as the sound <i>echec
      </i>are produced by other mechanism in the interior, and actuated at will
      by the man within. The whole of this mechanism—that is to say all
      the mechanism essential to the machine—is most probably contained
      within the little cupboard (of about six inches in breadth) partitioned
      off at the right (the spectators’ right) of the main compartment.
    </p>
<p>
      In this analysis of the operations of the Automaton, we have purposely
      avoided any allusion to the manner in which the partitions are shifted,
      and it will now be readily comprehended that this point is a matter of no
      importance, since, by mechanism within the ability of any common
      carpenter, it might be effected in an infinity of different ways, and
      since we have shown that, however performed, it is performed out of the
      view of the spectators. Our result is founded upon the following <i>observations
      </i>taken during frequent visits to the exhibition of Maelzel. {*5}
    </p>
<p>
      I. The moves of the Turk are not made at regular intervals of time, but
      accommodate themselves to the moves of the antagonist—although this
      point (of regularity) so important in all kinds of mechanical contrivance,
      might have been readily brought about by limiting the time allowed for the
      moves of the antagonist. For example, if this limit were three minutes,
      the moves of the Automaton might be made at any given intervals longer
      than three minutes. The fact then of irregularity, when regularity might
      have been so easily attained, goes to prove that regularity is unimportant
      to the action of the Automaton—in other words, that the Automaton is
      not a <i>pure machine.</i>
</p>
<p>
      2. When the Automaton is about to move a piece, a distinct motion is
      observable just beneath the left shoulder, and which motion agitates in a
      slight degree, the drapery covering the front of the left shoulder. This
      motion invariably precedes, by about two seconds, the movement of the arm
      itself—and the arm never, in any instance, moves without this
      preparatory motion in the shoulder. Now let the antagonist move a piece,
      and let the corresponding move be made by Maelzel, as usual, upon the
      board of the Automaton. Then let the antagonist narrowly watch the
      Automaton, until he detect the preparatory motion in the shoulder.
      Immediately upon detecting this motion, and before the arm itself begins
      to move, let him withdraw his piece, as if perceiving an error in his
      manoeuvre. It will then be seen that the movement of the arm, which, in
      all other cases, immediately succeeds the motion in the shoulder, is
      withheld—is not made—although Maelzel has not yet performed,
      on the board of the Automaton, any move corresponding to the withdrawal of
      the antagonist. In this case, that the Automaton was about to move is
      evident—and that he did not move, was an effect plainly produced by
      the withdrawal of the antagonist, and without any intervention of Maelzel.
    </p>
<p>
      This fact fully proves, 1—that the intervention of Maelzel, in
      performing the moves of the antagonist on the board of the Automaton, is
      not essential to the movements of the Automaton, 2—that its
      movements are regulated by <i>mind—</i>by some person who sees the
      board of the antagonist, 3—that its movements are not regulated by
      the mind of Maelzel, whose back was turned towards the antagonist at the
      withdrawal of his move.
    </p>
<p>
      3. The Automaton does not invariably win the game. Were the machine a pure
      machine this would not be the case—it would always win. The <i>principle
      </i>being discovered by which a machine can be made to <i>play </i>a game
      of chess, an extension of the same principle would enable it to win a game—a
      farther extension would enable it to win <i>all </i>games—that is,
      to beat any possible game of an antagonist. A little consideration will
      convince any one that the difficulty of making a machine beat all games,
      Is not in the least degree greater, as regards the principle of the
      operations necessary, than that of making it beat a single game. If then
      we regard the Chess-Player as a machine, we must suppose, (what is highly
      improbable,) that its inventor preferred leaving it incomplete to
      perfecting it—a supposition rendered still more absurd, when we
      reflect that the leaving it incomplete would afford an argument against
      the possibility of its being a pure machine—the very argument we now
      adduce.
    </p>
<p>
      4. When the situation of the game is difficult or complex, we never
      perceive the Turk either shake his head or roll his eyes. It is only when
      his next move is obvious, or when the game is so circumstanced that to a
      man in the Automaton’s place there would be no necessity for
      reflection. Now these peculiar movements of the head and eyes are
      movements customary with persons engaged in meditation, and the ingenious
      Baron Kempelen would have adapted these movements (were the machine a pure
      machine) to occasions proper for their display—that is, to occasions
      of complexity. But the reverse is seen to be the case, and this reverse
      applies precisely to our supposition of a man in the interior. When
      engaged in meditation about the game he has no time to think of setting in
      motion the mechanism of the Automaton by which are moved the head and the
      eyes. When the game, however, is obvious, he has time to look about him,
      and, accordingly, we see the head shake and the eyes roll.
    </p>
<p>
      5. When the machine is rolled round to allow the spectators an examination
      of the back of the Turk, and when his drapery is lifted up and the doors
      in the trunk and thigh thrown open, the interior of the trunk is seen to
      be crowded with machinery. In scrutinizing this machinery while the
      Automaton was in motion, that is to say while the whole machine was moving
      on the castors, it appeared to us that certain portions of the mechanism
      changed their shape and position in a degree too great to be accounted for
      by the simple laws of perspective; and subsequent examinations convinced
      us that these undue alterations were attributable to mirrors in the
      interior of the trunk. The introduction of mirrors among the machinery
      could not have been intended to influence, in any degree, the machinery
      itself. Their operation, whatever that operation should prove to be, must
      necessarily have reference to the eye of the spectator. We at once
      concluded that these mirrors were so placed to multiply to the vision some
      few pieces of machinery within the trunk so as to give it the appearance
      of being crowded with mechanism. Now the direct inference from this is
      that the machine is not a pure machine. For if it were, the inventor, so
      far from wishing its mechanism to appear complex, and using deception for
      the purpose of giving it this appearance, would have been especially
      desirous of convincing those who witnessed his exhibition, of the <i>simplicity
      </i>of the means by which results so wonderful were brought about.
    </p>
<p>
      6. The external appearance, and, especially, the deportment of the Turk,
      are, when we consider them as imitations of <i>life, </i>but very
      indifferent imitations. The countenance evinces no ingenuity, and is
      surpassed, in its resemblance to the human face, by the very commonest of
      wax-works. The eyes roll unnaturally in the head, without any
      corresponding motions of the lids or brows. The arm, particularly,
      performs its operations in an exceedingly stiff, awkward, jerking, and
      rectangular manner. Now, all this is the result either of inability in
      Maelzel to do better, or of intentional neglect—accidental neglect
      being out of the question, when we consider that the whole time of the
      ingenious proprietor is occupied in the improvement of his machines. Most
      assuredly we must not refer the unlife-like appearances to inability—for
      all the rest of Maelzel’s automata are evidence of his full ability
      to copy the motions and peculiarities of life with the most wonderful
      exactitude. The rope-dancers, for example, are inimitable. When the clown
      laughs, his lips, his eyes, his eye-brows, and eyelids—indeed, all
      the features of his countenance—are imbued with their appropriate
      expressions. In both him and his companion, every gesture is so entirely
      easy, and free from the semblance of artificiality, that, were it not for
      the diminutiveness of their size, and the fact of their being passed from
      one spectator to another previous to their exhibition on the rope, it
      would be difficult to convince any assemblage of persons that these wooden
      automata were not living creatures. We cannot, therefore, doubt Mr.
      Maelzel’s ability, and we must necessarily suppose that he
      intentionally suffered his Chess Player to remain the same artificial and
      unnatural figure which Baron Kempelen (no doubt also through design)
      originally made it. What this design was it is not difficult to conceive.
      Were the Automaton life-like in its motions, the spectator would be more
      apt to attribute its operations to their true cause, (that is, to human
      agency within) than he is now, when the awkward and rectangular manoeuvres
      convey the idea of pure and unaided mechanism.
    </p>
<p>
      7. When, a short time previous to the commencement of the game, the
      Automaton is wound up by the exhibiter as usual, an ear in any degree
      accustomed to the sounds produced in winding up a system of machinery,
      will not fail to discover, instantaneously, that the axis turned by the
      key in the box of the Chess-Player, cannot possibly be connected with
      either a weight, a spring, or any system of machinery whatever. The
      inference here is the same as in our last observation. The winding up is
      inessential to the operations of the Automaton, and is performed with the
      design of exciting in the spectators the false idea of mechanism.
    </p>
<p>
      8. When the question is demanded explicitly of Maelzel—“Is the
      Automaton a pure machine or not?” his reply is invariably the same—“I
      will say nothing about it.” Now the notoriety of the Automaton, and
      the great curiosity it has every where excited, are owing more especially
      to the prevalent opinion that it is a pure machine, than to any other
      circumstance. Of course, then, it is the interest of the proprietor to
      represent it as a pure machine. And what more obvious, and more effectual
      method could there be of impressing the spectators with this desired idea,
      than a positive and explicit declaration to that effect? On the other
      hand, what more obvious and effectual method could there be of exciting a
      disbelief in the Automaton’s being a pure machine, than by
      withholding such explicit declaration? For, people will naturally reason
      thus,—It is Maelzel’s interest to represent this thing a pure
      machine—he refuses to do so, directly, in words, although he does
      not scruple, and is evidently anxious to do so, indirectly by actions—were
      it actually what he wishes to represent it by actions, he would gladly
      avail himself of the more direct testimony of words—the inference
      is, that a consciousness of its not being a pure machine, is the reason of
      his silence—his actions cannot implicate him in a falsehood—his
      words may.
    </p>
<p>
      9. When, in exhibiting the interior of the box, Maelzel has thrown open
      the door No. I, and also the door immediately behind it, he holds a
      lighted candle at the back door (as mentioned above) and moves the entire
      machine to and fro with a view of convincing the company that the cupboard
      No. 1 is entirely filled with machinery. When the machine is thus moved
      about, it will be apparent to any careful observer, that whereas that
      portion of the machinery near the front door No. 1, is perfectly steady
      and unwavering, the portion farther within fluctuates, in a very slight
      degree, with the movements of the machine. This circumstance first aroused
      in us the suspicion that the more remote portion of the machinery was so
      arranged as to be easily slipped, <i>en masse, </i>from its position when
      occasion should require it. This occasion we have already stated to occur
      when the man concealed within brings his body into an erect position upon
      the closing of the back door.
    </p>
<p>
      10. Sir David Brewster states the figure of the Turk to be of the size of
      life—but in fact it is far above the ordinary size. Nothing is more
      easy than to err in our notions of magnitude. The body of the Automaton is
      generally insulated, and, having no means of immediately comparing it with
      any human form, we suffer ourselves to consider it as of ordinary
      dimensions. This mistake may, however, be corrected by observing the
      Chess-Player when, as is sometimes the case, the exhibiter approaches it.
      Mr. Maelzel, to be sure, is not very tall, but upon drawing near the
      machine, his head will be found at least eighteen inches below the head of
      the Turk, although the latter, it will be remembered, is in a sitting
      position.
    </p>
<p>
      11. The box behind which the Automaton is placed, is precisely three feet
      six inches long, two feet four inches deep, and two feet six inches high.
      These dimensions are fully sufficient for the accommodation of a man very
      much above the common size—and the main compartment alone is capable
      of holding any ordinary man in the position we have mentioned as assumed
      by the person concealed. As these are facts, which any one who doubts them
      may prove by actual calculation, we deem it unnecessary to dwell upon
      them. We will only suggest that, although the top of the box is apparently
      a board of about three inches in thickness, the spectator may satisfy
      himself by stooping and looking up at it when the main compartment is
      open, that it is in reality very thin. The height of the drawer also will
      be misconceived by those who examine it in a cursory manner. There is a
      space of about three inches between the top of the drawer as seen from the
      exterior, and the bottom of the cupboard—a space which must be
      included in the height of the drawer. These contrivances to make the room
      within the box appear less than it actually is, are referrible to a design
      on the part of the inventor, to impress the company again with a false
      idea, viz. that no human being can be accommodated within the box.
    </p>
<p>
      12. The interior of the main compartment is lined throughout with <i>cloth.
      </i>This cloth we suppose to have a twofold object. A portion of <i>it
      </i>may form, when tightly stretched, the only partitions which there is
      any necessity for removing during the changes of the man’s position,
      viz: the partition between the rear of the main compartment and the rear
      of the cupboard No. 1, and the partition between the main compartment, and
      the space behind the drawer when open. If we imagine this to be the case,
      the difficulty of shifting the partitions vanishes at once, if indeed any
      such difficulty could be supposed under any circumstances to exist. The
      second object of the cloth is to deaden and render indistinct all sounds
      occasioned by the movements of the person within.
    </p>
<p>
      13. The antagonist (as we have before observed) is not suffered to play at
      the board of the Automaton, but is seated at some distance from the
      machine. The reason which, most probably, would be assigned for this
      circumstance, if the question were demanded, is, that were the antagonist
      otherwise situated, his person would intervene between the machine and the
      spectators, and preclude the latter from a distinct view. But this
      difficulty might be easily obviated, either by elevating the seats of the
      company, or by turning the end of the box towards them during the game.
      The true cause of the restriction is, perhaps, very different. Were the
      antagonist seated in contact with the box, the secret would be liable to
      discovery, by his detecting, with the aid of a quick car, the breathings
      of the man concealed.
    </p>
<p>
      14. Although M. Maelzel, in disclosing the interior of the machine,
      sometimes slightly deviates from the <i>routine </i>which we have pointed
      out, yet <i>reeler in </i>any instance does he <i>so </i>deviate from it
      as to interfere with our solution. For example, he has been known to open,
      first of all, the drawer—but he never opens the main compartment
      without first closing the back door of cupboard No. 1—he never opens
      the main compartment without first pulling out the drawer—he never
      shuts the drawer without first shutting the main compartment—he
      never opens the back door of cupboard No. 1 while the main compartment is
      open—and the game of chess is never commenced until the whole
      machine is closed. Now if it were observed that <i>never, in any single
      instance, </i>did M. Maelzel differ from the routine we have pointed out
      as necessary to our solution, it would be one of the strongest possible
      arguments in corroboration of it—but the argument becomes infinitely
      strengthened if we duly consider the circumstance that he <i>does
      occasionally </i>deviate from the routine but never does <i>so </i>deviate
      as to falsify the solution.
    </p>
<p>
      15. There are six candles on the board of the Automaton during exhibition.
      The question naturally arises—“Why are so many employed, when
      a single candle, or, at farthest, two, would have been amply sufficient to
      afford the spectators a clear view of the board, in a room otherwise so
      well lit up as the exhibition room always is—when, moreover, if we
      suppose the machine a <i>pure machine, </i>there can be no necessity for
      so much light, or indeed any light at all, to enable <i>it </i>to perform
      its operations—and when, especially, only a single candle is placed
      upon the table of the antagonist?” The first and most obvious
      inference is, that so strong a light is requisite to enable the man within
      to see through the transparent material (probably fine gauze) of which the
      breast of the Turk is composed. But when we consider the arrangement of
      the candles, another reason immediately presents itself. There are six
      lights (as we have said before) in all. Three of these are on each side of
      the figure. Those most remote from the spectators are the longest—those
      in the middle are about two inches shorter—and those nearest the
      company about two inches shorter still—and the candles on one side
      differ in height from the candles respectively opposite on the other, by a
      ratio different from two inches—that is to say, the longest candle
      on one side is about three inches shorter than the longest candle on the
      other, and so on. Thus it will be seen that no two of the candles are of
      the same height, and thus also the difficulty of ascertaining the <i>material
      </i>of the breast of the figure (against which the light is especially
      directed) is greatly augmented by the dazzling effect of the complicated
      crossings of the rays—crossings which are brought about by placing
      the centres of radiation all upon different levels.
    </p>
<p>
      16. While the Chess-Player was in possession of Baron Kempelen, it was
      more than once observed, first, that an Italian in the suite of the Baron
      was never visible during the playing of a game at chess by the Turk, and,
      secondly, that the Italian being taken seriously ill, the exhibition was
      suspended until his recovery. This Italian professed a <i>total </i>ignorance
      of the game of chess, although all others of the suite played well.
      Similar observations have been made since the Automaton has been purchased
      by Maelzel. There is a man, <i>Schlumberoer, </i>who attends him wherever
      he goes, but who has no ostensible occupation other than that of assisting
      in the packing and unpacking of the automata. This man is about the medium
      size, and has a remarkable stoop in the shoulders. Whether he professes to
      play chess or not, we are not informed. It is quite certain, however, that
      he is never to be seen during the exhibition of the Chess-Player, although
      frequently visible just before and just after the exhibition. Moreover,
      some years ago Maelzel visited Richmond with his automata, and exhibited
      them, we believe, in the house now occupied by M. Bossieux as a Dancing
      Academy. <i>Schlumberg</i>er was suddenly taken ill, and during his
      illness there was no exhibition of the Chess-Player. These facts are well
      known to many of our citizens. The reason assigned for the suspension of
      the Chess-Player’s performances, was <i>not </i>the illness of <i>Schlumberger.
      </i>The inferences from all this we leave, without farther comment, to the
      reader.
    </p>
<p>
      17. The Turk plays with his <i>left</i> arm. A circumstance so remarkable
      cannot be accidental. Brewster takes no notice of it whatever beyond a
      mere statement, we believe, that such is the fact. The early writers of
      treatises on the Automaton, seem not to have observed the matter at all,
      and have no reference to it. The author of the pamphlet alluded to by
      Brewster, mentions it, but acknowledges his inability to account for it.
      Yet it is obviously from such prominent discrepancies or incongruities as
      this that deductions are to be made (if made at all) which shall lead us
      to the truth.
    </p>
<p>
      The circumstance of the Automaton’s playing with his left hand
      cannot have connexion with the operations of the machine, considered
      merely as such. Any mechanical arrangement which would cause the figure to
      move, in any given manner, the left arm—could, if reversed, cause it
      to move, in the same manner, the right. But these principles cannot be
      extended to the human organization, wherein there is a marked and radical
      difference in the construction, and, at all events, in the powers, of the
      right and left arms. Reflecting upon this latter fact, we naturally refer
      the incongruity noticeable in the Chess-Player to this peculiarity in the
      human organization. If so, we must imagine some <i>reversion—</i>for
      the Chess-Player plays precisely as a man <i>would not. </i>These ideas,
      once entertained, are sufficient of themselves, to suggest the notion of a
      man in the interior. A few more imperceptible steps lead us, finally, to
      the result. The Automaton plays with his left arm, because under no other
      circumstances could the man within play with his right—a <i>desideratum
      </i>of course. Let us, for example, imagine the Automaton to play with his
      right arm. To reach the machinery which moves the arm, and which we have
      before explained to lie just beneath the shoulder, it would be necessary
      for the man within either to use his right arm in an exceedingly painful
      and awkward position, (viz. brought up close to his body and tightly
      compressed between his body and the side of the Automaton,) or else to use
      his left arm brought across his breast. In neither case could he act with
      the requisite ease or precision. On the contrary, the Automaton playing,
      as it actually does, with the left arm, all difficulties vanish. The right
      arm of the man within is brought across his breast, and his right fingers
      act, without any constraint, upon the machinery in the shoulder of the
      figure.
    </p>
<p>
      We do not believe that any reasonable objections can be urged against this
      solution of the Automaton Chess-Player.
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2150link2H_4_0019">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      THE POWER OF WORDS
    </h2>
<p>
      OINOS. Pardon, Agathos, the weakness of a spirit new-fledged with
      immortality!
    </p>
<p>
      AGATHOS. You have spoken nothing, my Oinos, for which pardon is to be
      demanded. Not even here is knowledge thing of intuition. For wisdom, ask
      of the angels freely, that it may be given!
    </p>
<p>
      OINOS. But in this existence, I dreamed that I should be at once cognizant
      of all things, and thus at once be happy in being cognizant of all.
    </p>
<p>
      AGATHOS. Ah, not in knowledge is happiness, but in the acquisition of
      knowledge! In for ever knowing, we are for ever blessed; but to know all
      were the curse of a fiend.
    </p>
<p>
      OINOS. But does not The Most High know all?
    </p>
<p>
      AGATHOS. That (since he is The Most Happy) must be still the one thing
      unknown even to Him.
    </p>
<p>
      OINOS. But, since we grow hourly in knowledge, must not at last all things
      be known?
    </p>
<p>
      AGATHOS. Look down into the abysmal distances!—attempt to force the
      gaze down the multitudinous vistas of the stars, as we sweep slowly
      through them thus—and thus—and thus! Even the spiritual
      vision, is it not at all points arrested by the continuous golden walls of
      the universe?—the walls of the myriads of the shining bodies that
      mere number has appeared to blend into unity?
    </p>
<p>
      OINOS. I clearly perceive that the infinity of matter is no dream.
    </p>
<p>
      AGATHOS. There are no dreams in Aidenn—but it is here whispered
      that, of this infinity of matter, the sole purpose is to afford infinite
      springs, at which the soul may allay the thirst to know, which is for ever
      unquenchable within it—since to quench it, would be to extinguish
      the soul’s self. Question me then, my Oinos, freely and without
      fear. Come! we will leave to the left the loud harmony of the Pleiades,
      and swoop outward from the throne into the starry meadows beyond Orion,
      where, for pansies and violets, and heart’s—ease, are the beds
      of the triplicate and triple—tinted suns.
    </p>
<p>
      OINOS. And now, Agathos, as we proceed, instruct me!—speak to me in
      the earth’s familiar tones. I understand not what you hinted to me,
      just now, of the modes or of the method of what, during mortality, we were
      accustomed to call Creation. Do you mean to say that the Creator is not
      God?
    </p>
<p>
      AGATHOS. I mean to say that the Deity does not create.
    </p>
<p>
      OINOS. Explain.
    </p>
<p>
      AGATHOS. In the beginning only, he created. The seeming creatures which
      are now, throughout the universe, so perpetually springing into being, can
      only be considered as the mediate or indirect, not as the direct or
      immediate results of the Divine creative power.
    </p>
<p>
      OINOS. Among men, my Agathos, this idea would be considered heretical in
      the extreme.
    </p>
<p>
      AGATHOS. Among angels, my Oinos, it is seen to be simply true.
    </p>
<p>
      OINOS. I can comprehend you thus far—that certain operations of what
      we term Nature, or the natural laws, will, under certain conditions, give
      rise to that which has all the appearance of creation. Shortly before the
      final overthrow of the earth, there were, I well remember, many very
      successful experiments in what some philosophers were weak enough to
      denominate the creation of animalculae.
    </p>
<p>
      AGATHOS. The cases of which you speak were, in fact, instances of the
      secondary creation—and of the only species of creation which has
      ever been, since the first word spoke into existence the first law.
    </p>
<p>
      OINOS. Are not the starry worlds that, from the abyss of nonentity, burst
      hourly forth into the heavens—are not these stars, Agathos, the
      immediate handiwork of the King?
    </p>
<p>
      AGATHOS. Let me endeavor, my Oinos, to lead you, step by step, to the
      conception I intend. You are well aware that, as no thought can perish, so
      no act is without infinite result. We moved our hands, for example, when
      we were dwellers on the earth, and, in so doing, gave vibration to the
      atmosphere which engirdled it. This vibration was indefinitely extended,
      till it gave impulse to every particle of the earth’s air, which
      thenceforward, and for ever, was actuated by the one movement of the hand.
      This fact the mathematicians of our globe well knew. They made the special
      effects, indeed, wrought in the fluid by special impulses, the subject of
      exact calculation—so that it became easy to determine in what
      precise period an impulse of given extent would engirdle the orb, and
      impress (for ever) every atom of the atmosphere circumambient.
      Retrograding, they found no difficulty, from a given effect, under given
      conditions, in determining the value of the original impulse. Now the
      mathematicians who saw that the results of any given impulse were
      absolutely endless—and who saw that a portion of these results were
      accurately traceable through the agency of algebraic analysis—who
      saw, too, the facility of the retrogradation—these men saw, at the
      same time, that this species of analysis itself, had within itself a
      capacity for indefinite progress—that there were no bounds
      conceivable to its advancement and applicability, except within the
      intellect of him who advanced or applied it. But at this point our
      mathematicians paused.
    </p>
<p>
      OINOS. And why, Agathos, should they have proceeded?
    </p>
<p>
      AGATHOS. Because there were some considerations of deep interest beyond.
      It was deducible from what they knew, that to a being of infinite
      understanding—one to whom the perfection of the algebraic analysis
      lay unfolded—there could be no difficulty in tracing every impulse
      given the air—and the ether through the air—to the remotest
      consequences at any even infinitely remote epoch of time. It is indeed
      demonstrable that every such impulse given the air, must, in the end,
      impress every individual thing that exists within the universe;—and
      the being of infinite understanding—the being whom we have imagined—might
      trace the remote undulations of the impulse—trace them upward and
      onward in their influences upon all particles of an matter—upward
      and onward for ever in their modifications of old forms—or, in other
      words, in their creation of new—until he found them reflected—unimpressive
      at last—back from the throne of the Godhead. And not only could such
      a thing do this, but at any epoch, should a given result be afforded him—should
      one of these numberless comets, for example, be presented to his
      inspection—he could have no difficulty in determining, by the
      analytic retrogradation, to what original impulse it was due. This power
      of retrogradation in its absolute fulness and perfection—this
      faculty of referring at all epochs, all effects to all causes—is of
      course the prerogative of the Deity alone—but in every variety of
      degree, short of the absolute perfection, is the power itself exercised by
      the whole host of the Angelic intelligences.
    </p>
<p>
      OINOS. But you speak merely of impulses upon the air.
    </p>
<p>
      AGATHOS. In speaking of the air, I referred only to the earth; but the
      general proposition has reference to impulses upon the ether—which,
      since it pervades, and alone pervades all space, is thus the great medium
      of creation.
    </p>
<p>
      OINOS. Then all motion, of whatever nature, creates?
    </p>
<p>
      AGATHOS. It must: but a true philosophy has long taught that the source of
      all motion is thought—and the source of all thought is—
    </p>
<p>
      OINOS. God.
    </p>
<p>
      AGATHOS. I have spoken to you, Oinos, as to a child of the fair Earth
      which lately perished—of impulses upon the atmosphere of the Earth.
    </p>
<p>
      OINOS. You did.
    </p>
<p>
      AGATHOS. And while I thus spoke, did there not cross your mind some
      thought of the physical power of words? Is not every word an impulse on
      the air?
    </p>
<p>
      OINOS. But why, Agathos, do you weep—and why, oh why do your wings
      droop as we hover above this fair star—which is the greenest and yet
      most terrible of all we have encountered in our flight? Its brilliant
      flowers look like a fairy dream—but its fierce volcanoes like the
      passions of a turbulent heart.
    </p>
<p>
      AGATHOS. They are!—they are! This wild star—it is now three
      centuries since, with clasped hands, and with streaming eyes, at the feet
      of my beloved—I spoke it—with a few passionate sentences—into
      birth. Its brilliant flowers are the dearest of all unfulfilled dreams,
      and its raging volcanoes are the passions of the most turbulent and
      unhallowed of hearts.
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2150link2H_4_0020">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      THE COLLOQUY OF MONOS AND UNA
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     “These; things are in the future.”

            Sophocles—Antig:
</pre>
<p>
<i> Una.</i> “Born again?”
    </p>
<p>
<i> Monos.</i> Yes, fairest and best beloved Una, “born again.”
      These were the words upon whose mystical meaning I had so long pondered,
      rejecting the explanations of the priesthood, until Death himself resolved
      for me the secret.
    </p>
<p>
<i>Una.</i> Death!
    </p>
<p>
<i>Monos.</i> How strangely, sweet Una, you echo my words! I observe, too,
      a vacillation in your step—a joyous inquietude in your eyes. You are
      confused and oppressed by the majestic novelty of the Life Eternal. Yes,
      it was of Death I spoke. And here how singularly sounds that word which of
      old was wont to bring terror to all hearts—throwing a mildew upon
      all pleasures!
    </p>
<p>
<i> Una.</i> Ah, Death, the spectre which sate at all feasts! How often,
      Monos, did we lose ourselves in speculations upon its nature! How
      mysteriously did it act as a check to human bliss—saying unto it
      “thus far, and no farther!” That earnest mutual love, my own
      Monos, which burned within our bosoms how vainly did we flatter ourselves,
      feeling happy in its first up-springing, that our happiness would
      strengthen with its strength! Alas! as it grew, so grew in our hearts the
      dread of that evil hour which was hurrying to separate us forever! Thus,
      in time, it became painful to love. Hate would have been mercy then.
    </p>
<p>
<i> Monos.</i> Speak not here of these griefs, dear Una—mine, mine,
      forever now!
    </p>
<p>
<i> Una.</i> But the memory of past sorrow—is it not present joy? I
      have much to say yet of the things which have been. Above all, I burn to
      know the incidents of your own passage through the dark Valley and Shadow.
    </p>
<p>
<i> Monos.</i> And when did the radiant Una ask anything of her Monos in
      vain? I will be minute in relating all—but at what point shall the
      weird narrative begin?
    </p>
<p>
<i>Una.</i> At what point?
    </p>
<p>
<i>Monos.</i> You have said.
    </p>
<p>
<i>Una.</i> Monos, I comprehend you. In Death we have both learned the
      propensity of man to define the indefinable. I will not say, then,
      commence with the moment of life’s cessation—but commence with
      that sad, sad instant when, the fever having abandoned you, you sank into
      a breathless and motionless torpor, and I pressed down your pallid eyelids
      with the passionate fingers of love.
    </p>
<p>
<i> Monos.</i> One word first, my Una, in regard to man’s general
      condition at this epoch. You will remember that one or two of the wise
      among our forefathers—wise in fact, although not in the world’s
      esteem—had ventured to doubt the propriety of the term “improvement,”
      as applied to the progress of our civilization. There were periods in each
      of the five or six centuries immediately preceding our dissolution, when
      arose some vigorous intellect, boldly contending for those principles
      whose truth appears now, to our disenfranchised reason, so utterly obvious—principles
      which should have taught our race to submit to the guidance of the natural
      laws, rather than attempt their control. At long intervals some
      masterminds appeared, looking upon each advance in practical science as a
      retro-gradation in the true utility. Occasionally the poetic intellect—that
      intellect which we now feel to have been the most exalted of all—since
      those truths which to us were of the most enduring importance could only
      be reached by that analogy which speaks in proof tones to the imagination
      alone and to the unaided reason bears no weight—occasionally did
      this poetic intellect proceed a step farther in the evolving of the vague
      idea of the philosophic, and find in the mystic parable that tells of the
      tree of knowledge, and of its forbidden fruit, death-producing, a distinct
      intimation that knowledge was not meet for man in the infant condition of
      his soul. And these men—the poets—living and perishing amid
      the scorn of the “utilitarians”—of rough pedants, who
      arrogated to themselves a title which could have been properly applied
      only to the scorned—these men, the poets, pondered piningly, yet not
      unwisely, upon the ancient days when our wants were not more simple than
      our enjoyments were keen—days when mirth was a word unknown, so
      solemnly deep-toned was happiness—holy, august and blissful days,
      when blue rivers ran undammed, between hills unhewn, into far forest
      solitudes, prim?val, odorous, and unexplored.
    </p>
<p>
      Yet these noble exceptions from the general misrule served but to
      strengthen it by opposition. Alas! we had fallen upon the most evil of all
      our evil days. The great “movement”—that was the cant
      term—went on: a diseased commotion, moral and physical. Art—the
      Arts—arose supreme, and, once enthroned, cast chains upon the
      intellect which had elevated them to power. Man, because he could not but
      acknowledge the majesty of Nature, fell into childish exultation at his
      acquired and still-increasing dominion over her elements. Even while he
      stalked a God in his own fancy, an infantine imbecility came over him. As
      might be supposed from the origin of his disorder, he grew infected with
      system, and with abstraction. He enwrapped himself in generalities. Among
      other odd ideas, that of universal equality gained ground; and in the face
      of analogy and of God—in despite of the loud warning voice of the
      laws of gradation so visibly pervading all things in Earth an Heaven—wild
      attempts at an omni-prevalent Democracy were made. Yet this evil sprang
      necessarily from the leading evil, Knowledge. Man could not both know and
      succumb. Meantime huge smoking cities arose, innumerable. Green leaves
      shrank before the hot breath of furnaces. The fair face of Nature was
      deformed as with the ravages of some loathsome disease. And methinks,
      sweet Una, even our slumbering sense of the forced and of the far-fetched
      might have arrested us here. But now it appears that we had worked out our
      own destruction in the perversion of our taste, or rather in the blind
      neglect of its culture in the schools. For, in truth, it was at this
      crisis that taste alone—that faculty which, holding a middle
      position between the pure intellect and the moral sense, could never
      safely have been disregarded—it was now that taste alone could have
      led us gently back to Beauty, to Nature, and to Life. But alas for the
      pure contemplative spirit and majestic intuition of Plato! Alas for the
      which he justly regarded as an all-sufficient education for the soul! Alas
      for him and for it!—since both were most desperately needed when
      both were most entirely forgotten or despised. {*1}
    </p>
<p>
      Pascal, a philosopher whom we both love, has said, how truly!—“que
      tout notre raisonnement se r?duit ? c?der au sentiment;” and it is
      not impossible that the sentiment of the natural, had time permitted it,
      would have regained its old ascendancy over the harsh mathematical reason
      of the schools. But this thing was not to be. Prematurely induced by
      intemperance of knowledge the old age of the world drew on. This the mass
      of mankind saw not, or, living lustily although unhappily, affected not to
      see. But, for myself, the Earth’s records had taught me to look for
      widest ruin as the price of highest civilization. I had imbibed a
      prescience of our Fate from comparison of China the simple and enduring,
      with Assyria the architect, with Egypt the astrologer, with Nubia, more
      crafty than either, the turbulent mother of all Arts. In history {*2} of
      these regions I met with a ray from the Future. The individual
      artificialities of the three latter were local diseases of the Earth, and
      in their individual overthrows we had seen local remedies applied; but for
      the infected world at large I could anticipate no regeneration save in
      death. That man, as a race, should not become extinct, I saw that he must
      be “born again.”
    </p>
<p>
      And now it was, fairest and dearest, that we wrapped our spirits, daily,
      in dreams. Now it was that, in twilight, we discoursed of the days to
      come, when the Art-scarred surface of the Earth, having undergone that
      purification {*3} which alone could efface its rectangular obscenities,
      should clothe itself anew in the verdure and the mountain-slopes and the
      smiling waters of Paradise, and be rendered at length a fit dwelling-place
      for man:—for man the Death purged—for man to whose now exalted
      intellect there should be poison in knowledge no more—for the
      redeemed, regenerated, blissful, and now immortal, but still for the
      material, man.
    </p>
<p>
<i>Una.</i> Well do I remember these conversations, dear Monos; but the
      epoch of the fiery overthrow was not so near at hand as we believed, and
      as the corruption you indicate did surely warrant us in believing. Men
      lived; and died individually. You yourself sickened, and passed into the
      grave; and thither your constant Una speedily followed you. And though the
      century which has since elapsed, and whose conclusion brings us thus
      together once more, tortured our slumbering senses with no impatience of
      duration, yet, my Monos, it was a century still.
    </p>
<p>
<i>Monos.</i> Say, rather, a point in the vague infinity. Unquestionably,
      it was in the Earth’s dotage that I died. Wearied at heart with
      anxieties which had their origin in the general turmoil and decay, I
      succumbed to the fierce fever. After some few days of pain, and many of
      dreamy delirium replete with ecstasy, the manifestations of which you
      mistook for pain, while I longed but was impotent to undeceive you—after
      some days there came upon me, as you have said, a breathless and
      motionless torpor; and this was termed Death by those who stood around me.
    </p>
<p>
      Words are vague things. My condition did not deprive me of sentience. It
      appeared to me not greatly dissimilar to the extreme quiescence of him,
      who, having slumbered long and profoundly, lying motionless and fully
      prostrate in a midsummer noon, begins to steal slowly back into
      consciousness, through the mere sufficiency of his sleep, and without
      being awakened by external disturbances.
    </p>
<p>
      I breathed no longer. The pulses were still. The heart had ceased to beat.
      Volition had not departed, but was powerless. The senses were unusually
      active, although eccentrically so—assuming often each other’s
      functions at random. The taste and the smell were inextricably confounded,
      and became one sentiment, abnormal and intense. The rose-water with which
      your tenderness had moistened my lips to the last, affected me with sweet
      fancies of flowers—fantastic flowers, far more lovely than any of
      the old Earth, but whose prototypes we have here blooming around us. The
      eyelids, transparent and bloodless, offered no complete impediment to
      vision. As volition was in abeyance, the balls could not roll in their
      sockets but all objects within the range of the visual hemisphere were
      seen with more or less distinctness; the rays which fell upon the external
      retina, or into the corner of the eye, producing a more vivid effect than
      those which struck the front or interior surface. Yet, in the former
      instance, this effect was so far anomalous that I appreciated it only as
      sound—sound sweet or discordant as the matters presenting themselves
      at my side were light or dark in shade—curved or angular in outline.
      The hearing, at the same time, although excited in degree, was not
      irregular in action—estimating real sounds with an extravagance of
      precision, not less than of sensibility. Touch had undergone a
      modification more peculiar. Its impressions were tardily received, but
      pertinaciously retained, and resulted always in the highest physical
      pleasure. Thus the pressure of your sweet fingers upon my eyelids, at
      first only recognised through vision, at length, long after their removal,
      filled my whole being with a sensual delight immeasurable. I say with a
      sensual delight. All my perceptions were purely sensual. The materials
      furnished the passive brain by the senses were not in the least degree
      wrought into shape by the deceased understanding. Of pain there was some
      little; of pleasure there was much; but of moral pain or pleasure none at
      all. Thus your wild sobs floated into my ear with all their mournful
      cadences, and were appreciated in their every variation of sad tone; but
      they were soft musical sounds and no more; they conveyed to the extinct
      reason no intimation of the sorrows which gave them birth; while the large
      and constant tears which fell upon my face, telling the bystanders of a
      heart which broke, thrilled every fibre of my frame with ecstasy alone.
      And this was in truth the Death of which these bystanders spoke
      reverently, in low whispers—you, sweet Una, gaspingly, with loud
      cries.
    </p>
<p>
      They attired me for the coffin—three or four dark figures which
      flitted busily to and fro. As these crossed the direct line of my vision
      they affected me as forms; but upon passing to my side their images
      impressed me with the idea of shrieks, groans, and other dismal
      expressions of terror, of horror, or of wo. You alone, habited in a white
      robe, passed in all directions musically about me.
    </p>
<p>
      The day waned; and, as its light faded away, I became possessed by a vague
      uneasiness—an anxiety such as the sleeper feels when sad real sounds
      fall continuously within his ear—low distant bell-tones, solemn, at
      long but equal intervals, and mingling with melancholy dreams. Night
      arrived; and with its shadows a heavy discomfort. It oppressed my limbs
      with the oppression of some dull weight, and was palpable. There was also
      a moaning sound, not unlike the distant reverberation of surf, but more
      continuous, which, beginning with the first twilight, had grown in
      strength with the darkness. Suddenly lights were brought into the room,
      and this reverberation became forthwith interrupted into frequent unequal
      bursts of the same sound, but less dreary and less distinct. The ponderous
      oppression was in a great measure relieved; and, issuing from the flame of
      each lamp, (for there were many,) there flowed unbrokenly into my ears a
      strain of melodious monotone. And when now, dear Una, approaching the bed
      upon which I lay outstretched, you sat gently by my side, breathing odor
      from your sweet lips, and pressing them upon my brow, there arose
      tremulously within my bosom, and mingling with the merely physical
      sensations which circumstances had called forth, a something akin to
      sentiment itself—a feeling that, half appreciating, half responded
      to your earnest love and sorrow; but this feeling took no root in the
      pulseless heart, and seemed indeed rather a shadow than a reality, and
      faded quickly away, first into extreme quiescence, and then into a purely
      sensual pleasure as before.
    </p>
<p>
      And now, from the wreck and the chaos of the usual senses, there appeared
      to have arisen within me a sixth, all perfect. In its exercise I found a
      wild delight—yet a delight still physical, inasmuch as the
      understanding had in it no part. Motion in the animal frame had fully
      ceased. No muscle quivered; no nerve thrilled; no artery throbbed. But
      there seemed to have sprung up in the brain, that of which no words could
      convey to the merely human intelligence even an indistinct conception. Let
      me term it a mental pendulous pulsation. It was the moral embodiment of
      man’s abstract idea of Time. By the absolute equalization of this
      movement—or of such as this—had the cycles of the firmamental
      orbs themselves, been adjusted. By its aid I measured the irregularities
      of the clock upon the mantel, and of the watches of the attendants. Their
      tickings came sonorously to my ears. The slightest deviations from the
      true proportion—and these deviations were omni-pr?valent—affected
      me just as violations of abstract truth were wont, on earth, to affect the
      moral sense. Although no two of the time-pieces in the chamber struck the
      individual seconds accurately together, yet I had no difficulty in holding
      steadily in mind the tones, and the respective momentary errors of each.
      And this—this keen, perfect, self-existing sentiment of duration—this
      sentiment existing (as man could not possibly have conceived it to exist)
      independently of any succession of events—this idea—this sixth
      sense, upspringing from the ashes of the rest, was the first obvious and
      certain step of the intemporal soul upon the threshold of the temporal
      Eternity.
    </p>
<p>
      It was midnight; and you still sat by my side. All others had departed
      from the chamber of Death. They had deposited me in the coffin. The lamps
      burned flickeringly; for this I knew by the tremulousness of the
      monotonous strains. But, suddenly these strains diminished in distinctness
      and in volume. Finally they ceased. The perfume in my nostrils died away.
      Forms affected my vision no longer. The oppression of the Darkness
      uplifted itself from my bosom. A dull shock like that of electricity
      pervaded my frame, and was followed by total loss of the idea of contact.
      All of what man has termed sense was merged in the sole consciousness of
      entity, and in the one abiding sentiment of duration. The mortal body had
      been at length stricken with the hand of the deadly Decay.
    </p>
<p>
      Yet had not all of sentience departed; for the consciousness and the
      sentiment remaining supplied some of its functions by a lethargic
      intuition. I appreciated the direful change now in operation upon the
      flesh, and, as the dreamer is sometimes aware of the bodily presence of
      one who leans over him, so, sweet Una, I still dully felt that you sat by
      my side. So, too, when the noon of the second day came, I was not
      unconscious of those movements which displaced you from my side, which
      confined me within the coffin, which deposited me within the hearse, which
      bore me to the grave, which lowered me within it, which heaped heavily the
      mould upon me, and which thus left me, in blackness and corruption, to my
      sad and solemn slumbers with the worm.
    </p>
<p>
      And here, in the prison-house which has few secrets to disclose, there
      rolled away days and weeks and months; and the soul watched narrowly each
      second as it flew, and, without effort, took record of its flight—without
      effort and without object.
    </p>
<p>
      A year passed. The consciousness of being had grown hourly more
      indistinct, and that of mere locality had, in great measure, usurped its
      position. The idea of entity was becoming merged in that of place. The
      narrow space immediately surrounding what had been the body, was now
      growing to be the body itself. At length, as often happens to the sleeper
      (by sleep and its world alone is Death imaged)—at length, as
      sometimes happened on Earth to the deep slumberer, when some flitting
      light half startled him into awaking, yet left him half enveloped in
      dreams—so to me, in the strict embrace of the Shadow came that light
      which alone might have had power to startle—the light of enduring
      Love. Men toiled at the grave in which I lay darkling. They upthrew the
      damp earth. Upon my mouldering bones there descended the coffin of Una.
    </p>
<p>
      And now again all was void. That nebulous light had been extinguished.
      That feeble thrill had vibrated itself into quiescence. Many lustra had
      supervened. Dust had returned to dust. The worm had food no more. The
      sense of being had at length utterly departed, and there reigned in its
      stead—instead of all things—dominant and perpetual—the
      autocrats Place and Time. For that which was not—for that which had
      no form—for that which had no thought—for that which had no
      sentience—for that which was soulless, yet of which matter formed no
      portion—for all this nothingness, yet for all this immortality, the
      grave was still a home, and the corrosive hours, co-mates.
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2150link2H_4_0021">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      THE CONVERSATION OF EIROS AND CHARMION
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     I will bring fire to thee.

             <i>Euripides—Androm:</i>
</pre>
<p>
      EIROS.
    </p>
<p>
      Why do you call me Eiros?
    </p>
<p>
      CHARMION
    </p>
<p>
      So henceforward will you always be called. You must forget too, my earthly
      name, and speak to me as Charmion.
    </p>
<p>
      EIROS.
    </p>
<p>
      This is indeed no dream!
    </p>
<p>
      CHARMION.
    </p>
<p>
      Dreams are with us no more;—but of these mysteries anon. I rejoice
      to see you looking life-like and rational. The film of the shadow has
      already passed from off your eyes. Be of heart and fear nothing. Your
      allotted days of stupor have expired and, to-morrow, I will myself induct
      you into the full joys and wonders of your novel existence.
    </p>
<p>
      EIROS.
    </p>
<p>
      True—I feel no stupor—none at all. The wild sickness and the
      terrible darkness have left me, and I hear no longer that mad, rushing,
      horrible sound, like the “voice of many waters.” Yet my senses
      are bewildered, Charmion, with the keenness of their perception of the
      new.
    </p>
<p>
      CHARMION.
    </p>
<p>
      A few days will remove all this;—but I fully understand you, and
      feel for you. It is now ten earthly years since I underwent what you
      undergo—yet the remembrance of it hangs by me still. You have now
      suffered all of pain, however, which you will suffer in Aidenn.
    </p>
<p>
      EIROS.
    </p>
<p>
      In Aidenn?
    </p>
<p>
      CHARMION.
    </p>
<p>
      In Aidenn.
    </p>
<p>
      EIROS.
    </p>
<p>
      Oh God!—pity me, Charmion!—I am overburthened with the majesty
      of all things—of the unknown now known—of the speculative
      Future merged in the august and certain Present.
    </p>
<p>
      CHARMION.
    </p>
<p>
      Grapple not now with such thoughts. To-morrow we will speak of this. Your
      mind wavers, and its agitation will find relief in the exercise of simple
      memories. Look not around, nor forward—but back. I am burning with
      anxiety to hear the details of that stupendous event which threw you among
      us. Tell me of it. Let us converse of familiar things, in the old familiar
      language of the world which has so fearfully perished.
    </p>
<p>
      EIROS.
    </p>
<p>
      Most fearfully, fearfully!—this is indeed no dream.
    </p>
<p>
      CHARMION.
    </p>
<p>
      Dreams are no more. Was I much mourned, my Eiros?
    </p>
<p>
      EIROS.
    </p>
<p>
      Mourned, Charmion?—oh deeply. To that last hour of all, there hung a
      cloud of intense gloom and devout sorrow over your household.
    </p>
<p>
      CHARMION.
    </p>
<p>
      And that last hour—speak of it. Remember that, beyond the naked fact
      of the catastrophe itself, I know nothing. When, coming out from among
      mankind, I passed into Night through the Grave—at that period, if I
      remember aright, the calamity which overwhelmed you was utterly
      unanticipated. But, indeed, I knew little of the speculative philosophy of
      the day.
    </p>
<p>
      EIROS.
    </p>
<p>
      The individual calamity was as you say entirely unanticipated; but
      analogous misfortunes had been long a subject of discussion with
      astronomers. I need scarce tell you, my friend, that, even when you left
      us, men had agreed to understand those passages in the most holy writings
      which speak of the final destruction of all things by fire, as having
      reference to the orb of the earth alone. But in regard to the immediate
      agency of the ruin, speculation had been at fault from that epoch in
      astronomical knowledge in which the comets were divested of the terrors of
      flame. The very moderate density of these bodies had been well
      established. They had been observed to pass among the satellites of
      Jupiter, without bringing about any sensible alteration either in the
      masses or in the orbits of these secondary planets. We had long regarded
      the wanderers as vapory creations of inconceivable tenuity, and as
      altogether incapable of doing injury to our substantial globe, even in the
      event of contact. But contact was not in any degree dreaded; for the
      elements of all the comets were accurately known. That among them we
      should look for the agency of the threatened fiery destruction had been
      for many years considered an inadmissible idea. But wonders and wild
      fancies had been, of late days, strangely rife among mankind; and,
      although it was only with a few of the ignorant that actual apprehension
      prevailed, upon the announcement by astronomers of a new comet, yet this
      announcement was generally received with I know not what of agitation and
      mistrust.
    </p>
<p>
      The elements of the strange orb were immediately calculated, and it was at
      once conceded by all observers, that its path, at perihelion, would bring
      it into very close proximity with the earth. There were two or three
      astronomers, of secondary note, who resolutely maintained that a contact
      was inevitable. I cannot very well express to you the effect of this
      intelligence upon the people. For a few short days they would not believe
      an assertion which their intellect so long employed among worldly
      considerations could not in any manner grasp. But the truth of a vitally
      important fact soon makes its way into the understanding of even the most
      stolid. Finally, all men saw that astronomical knowledge lied not, and
      they awaited the comet. Its approach was not, at first, seemingly rapid;
      nor was its appearance of very unusual character. It was of a dull red,
      and had little perceptible train. For seven or eight days we saw no
      material increase in its apparent diameter, and but a partial alteration
      in its color. Meantime, the ordinary affairs of men were discarded and all
      interests absorbed in a growing discussion, instituted by the philosophic,
      in respect to the cometary nature. Even the grossly ignorant aroused their
      sluggish capacities to such considerations. The learned now gave their
      intellect—their soul—to no such points as the allaying of
      fear, or to the sustenance of loved theory. They sought—they panted
      for right views. They groaned for perfected knowledge. Truth arose in the
      purity of her strength and exceeding majesty, and the wise bowed down and
      adored.
    </p>
<p>
      That material injury to our globe or to its inhabitants would result from
      the apprehended contact, was an opinion which hourly lost ground among the
      wise; and the wise were now freely permitted to rule the reason and the
      fancy of the crowd. It was demonstrated, that the density of the comet’s
      nucleus was far less than that of our rarest gas; and the harmless passage
      of a similar visitor among the satellites of Jupiter was a point strongly
      insisted upon, and which served greatly to allay terror. Theologists with
      an earnestness fear-enkindled, dwelt upon the biblical prophecies, and
      expounded them to the people with a directness and simplicity of which no
      previous instance had been known. That the final destruction of the earth
      must be brought about by the agency of fire, was urged with a spirit that
      enforced every where conviction; and that the comets were of no fiery
      nature (as all men now knew) was a truth which relieved all, in a great
      measure, from the apprehension of the great calamity foretold. It is
      noticeable that the popular prejudices and vulgar errors in regard to
      pestilences and wars—errors which were wont to prevail upon every
      appearance of a comet—were now altogether unknown. As if by some
      sudden convulsive exertion, reason had at once hurled superstition from
      her throne. The feeblest intellect had derived vigor from excessive
      interest.
    </p>
<p>
      What minor evils might arise from the contact were points of elaborate
      question. The learned spoke of slight geological disturbances, of probable
      alterations in climate, and consequently in vegetation, of possible
      magnetic and electric influences. Many held that no visible or perceptible
      effect would in any manner be produced. While such discussions were going
      on, their subject gradually approached, growing larger in apparent
      diameter, and of a more brilliant lustre. Mankind grew paler as it came.
      All human operations were suspended.
    </p>
<p>
      There was an epoch in the course of the general sentiment when the comet
      had attained, at length, a size surpassing that of any previously recorded
      visitation. The people now, dismissing any lingering hope that the
      astronomers were wrong, experienced all the certainty of evil. The
      chimerical aspect of their terror was gone. The hearts of the stoutest of
      our race beat violently within their bosoms. A very few days sufficed,
      however, to merge even such feelings in sentiments more unendurable We
      could no longer apply to the strange orb any accustomed thoughts. Its
      historical attributes had disappeared. It oppressed us with a hideous
      novelty of emotion. We saw it not as an astronomical phenomenon in the
      heavens, but as an incubus upon our hearts, and a shadow upon our brains.
      It had taken, with inconceivable rapidity, the character of a gigantic
      mantle of rare flame, extending from horizon to horizon.
    </p>
<p>
      Yet a day, and men breathed with greater freedom. It was clear that we
      were already within the influence of the comet; yet we lived. We even felt
      an unusual elasticity of frame and vivacity of mind. The exceeding tenuity
      of the object of our dread was apparent; for all heavenly objects were
      plainly visible through it. Meantime, our vegetation had perceptibly
      altered; and we gained faith, from this predicted circumstance, in the
      foresight of the wise. A wild luxuriance of foliage, utterly unknown
      before, burst out upon every vegetable thing.
    </p>
<p>
      Yet another day—and the evil was not altogether upon us. It was now
      evident that its nucleus would first reach us. A wild change had come over
      all men; and the first sense of pain was the wild signal for general
      lamentation and horror. This first sense of pain lay in a rigorous
      constriction of the breast and lungs, and an insufferable dryness of the
      skin. It could not be denied that our atmosphere was radically affected;
      the conformation of this atmosphere and the possible modifications to
      which it might be subjected, were now the topics of discussion. The result
      of investigation sent an electric thrill of the intensest terror through
      the universal heart of man.
    </p>
<p>
      It had been long known that the air which encircled us was a compound of
      oxygen and nitrogen gases, in the proportion of twenty-one measures of
      oxygen, and seventy-nine of nitrogen in every one hundred of the
      atmosphere. Oxygen, which was the principle of combustion, and the vehicle
      of heat, was absolutely necessary to the support of animal life, and was
      the most powerful and energetic agent in nature. Nitrogen, on the
      contrary, was incapable of supporting either animal life or flame. An
      unnatural excess of oxygen would result, it had been ascertained in just
      such an elevation of the animal spirits as we had latterly experienced. It
      was the pursuit, the extension of the idea, which had engendered awe. What
      would be the result of a total extraction of the nitrogen? A combustion
      irresistible, all-devouring, omni-prevalent, immediate;—the entire
      fulfilment, in all their minute and terrible details, of the fiery and
      horror-inspiring denunciations of the prophecies of the Holy Book.
    </p>
<p>
      Why need I paint, Charmion, the now disenchained frenzy of mankind? That
      tenuity in the comet which had previously inspired us with hope, was now
      the source of the bitterness of despair. In its impalpable gaseous
      character we clearly perceived the consummation of Fate. Meantime a day
      again passed—bearing away with it the last shadow of Hope. We gasped
      in the rapid modification of the air. The red blood bounded tumultuously
      through its strict channels. A furious delirium possessed all men; and,
      with arms rigidly outstretched towards the threatening heavens, they
      trembled and shrieked aloud. But the nucleus of the destroyer was now upon
      us;—even here in Aidenn, I shudder while I speak. Let me be brief—brief
      as the ruin that overwhelmed. For a moment there was a wild lurid light
      alone, visiting and penetrating all things. Then—let us bow down
      Charmion, before the excessive majesty of the great God!—then, there
      came a shouting and pervading sound, as if from the mouth itself of HIM;
      while the whole incumbent mass of ether in which we existed, burst at once
      into a species of intense flame, for whose surpassing brilliancy and
      all-fervid heat even the angels in the high Heaven of pure knowledge have
      no name. Thus ended all.
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2150link2H_4_0022">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      SHADOW—A PARABLE
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     Yea, though I walk through the valley of the Shadow:

          —Psalm of David.
</pre>
<p>
      YE who read are still among the living; but I who write shall have long
      since gone my way into the region of shadows. For indeed strange things
      shall happen, and secret things be known, and many centuries shall pass
      away, ere these memorials be seen of men. And, when seen, there will be
      some to disbelieve, and some to doubt, and yet a few who will find much to
      ponder upon in the characters here graven with a stylus of iron.
    </p>
<p>
      The year had been a year of terror, and of feelings more intense than
      terror for which there is no name upon the earth. For many prodigies and
      signs had taken place, and far and wide, over sea and land, the black
      wings of the Pestilence were spread abroad. To those, nevertheless,
      cunning in the stars, it was not unknown that the heavens wore an aspect
      of ill; and to me, the Greek Oinos, among others, it was evident that now
      had arrived the alternation of that seven hundred and ninety-fourth year
      when, at the entrance of Aries, the planet Jupiter is conjoined with the
      red ring of the terrible Saturnus. The peculiar spirit of the skies, if I
      mistake not greatly, made itself manifest, not only in the physical orb of
      the earth, but in the souls, imaginations, and meditations of mankind.
    </p>
<p>
      Over some flasks of the red Chian wine, within the walls of a noble hall,
      in a dim city called Ptolemais, we sat, at night, a company of seven. And
      to our chamber there was no entrance save by a lofty door of brass: and
      the door was fashioned by the artisan Corinnos, and, being of rare
      workmanship, was fastened from within. Black draperies, likewise, in the
      gloomy room, shut out from our view the moon, the lurid stars, and the
      peopleless streets—but the boding and the memory of Evil they would
      not be so excluded. There were things around us and about of which I can
      render no distinct account—things material and spiritual—heaviness
      in the atmosphere—a sense of suffocation—anxiety—and,
      above all, that terrible state of existence which the nervous experience
      when the senses are keenly living and awake, and meanwhile the powers of
      thought lie dormant. A dead weight hung upon us. It hung upon our limbs—upon
      the household furniture—upon the goblets from which we drank; and
      all things were depressed, and borne down thereby—all things save
      only the flames of the seven lamps which illumined our revel. Uprearing
      themselves in tall slender lines of light, they thus remained burning all
      pallid and motionless; and in the mirror which their lustre formed upon
      the round table of ebony at which we sat, each of us there assembled
      beheld the pallor of his own countenance, and the unquiet glare in the
      downcast eyes of his companions. Yet we laughed and were merry in our
      proper way—which was hysterical; and sang the songs of Anacreon—which
      are madness; and drank deeply—although the purple wine reminded us
      of blood. For there was yet another tenant of our chamber in the person of
      young Zoilus. Dead, and at full length he lay, enshrouded; the genius and
      the demon of the scene. Alas! he bore no portion in our mirth, save that
      his countenance, distorted with the plague, and his eyes, in which Death
      had but half extinguished the fire of the pestilence, seemed to take such
      interest in our merriment as the dead may haply take in the merriment of
      those who are to die. But although I, Oinos, felt that the eyes of the
      departed were upon me, still I forced myself not to perceive the
      bitterness of their expression, and gazing down steadily into the depths
      of the ebony mirror, sang with a loud and sonorous voice the songs of the
      son of Teios. But gradually my songs they ceased, and their echoes,
      rolling afar off among the sable draperies of the chamber, became weak,
      and undistinguishable, and so faded away. And lo! from among those sable
      draperies where the sounds of the song departed, there came forth a dark
      and undefined shadow—a shadow such as the moon, when low in heaven,
      might fashion from the figure of a man: but it was the shadow neither of
      man nor of God, nor of any familiar thing. And quivering awhile among the
      draperies of the room, it at length rested in full view upon the surface
      of the door of brass. But the shadow was vague, and formless, and
      indefinite, and was the shadow neither of man nor of God—neither God
      of Greece, nor God of Chaldaea, nor any Egyptian God. And the shadow
      rested upon the brazen doorway, and under the arch of the entablature of
      the door, and moved not, nor spoke any word, but there became stationary
      and remained. And the door whereupon the shadow rested was, if I remember
      aright, over against the feet of the young Zoilus enshrouded. But we, the
      seven there assembled, having seen the shadow as it came out from among
      the draperies, dared not steadily behold it, but cast down our eyes, and
      gazed continually into the depths of the mirror of ebony. And at length I,
      Oinos, speaking some low words, demanded of the shadow its dwelling and
      its appellation. And the shadow answered, “I am SHADOW, and my
      dwelling is near to the Catacombs of Ptolemais, and hard by those dim
      plains of Helusion which border upon the foul Charonian canal.” And
      then did we, the seven, start from our seats in horror, and stand
      trembling, and shuddering, and aghast, for the tones in the voice of the
      shadow were not the tones of any one being, but of a multitude of beings,
      and, varying in their cadences from syllable to syllable fell duskly upon
      our ears in the well-remembered and familiar accents of many thousand
      departed friends.
    </p>
<p>
<br/><br/>
</p>
<p>
<br/><br/>
</p>
<h1>
      THE WORKS OF EDGAR ALLAN POE
    </h1>
<h3>
      IN FIVE VOLUMES
    </h3>
<p>
<br/>
</p>
<h2>
      The Raven Edition
    </h2>
<p>
<br/> <br/>
</p>
<hr/>
<p>
<br/> <br/>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<big><b>CONTENTS</b></big>
</p>
<p>
<br/>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0001"> PHILOSOPHY OF FURNITURE. </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0002"> A TALE OF JERUSALEM </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0003"> THE SPHINX </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0004"> HOP-FROG </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0005"> THE MAN OF THE CROWD. </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0006"> NEVER BET THE DEVIL YOUR HEAD </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0007"> THOU ART THE MAN </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0008"> WHY THE LITTLE FRENCHMAN WEARS HIS HAND IN A
      SLING </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0009"> SOME WORDS WITH A MUMMY. </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0010"> THE POETIC PRINCIPLE </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0011"> OLD ENGLISH POETRY </a>
</p>
<p>
<br/><br/>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0012"> <big><b>POEMS</b></big> </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_PREF"> PREFACE </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0014"> POEMS OF LATER LIFE </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0015"> THE RAVEN. </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0016"> THE BELLS. </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0017"> ULALUME </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0018"> TO HELEN </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0019"> ANNABEL LEE. </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0020"> A VALENTINE. </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0021"> AN ENIGMA </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0022"> FOR ANNIE </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0023"> TO F——. </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0024"> TO FRANCES S. OSGOOD </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0025"> ELDORADO. </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0026"> TO MARIE LOUISE (SHEW) </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0027"> TO MARIE LOUISE (SHEW) </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0028"> THE CITY IN THE SEA. </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0029"> THE SLEEPER. </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_NOTE"> NOTES </a>
</p>
<p>
<br/><br/>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0031"> <big><b>POEMS OF MANHOOD</b></big> </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0032"> LENORE </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0033"> TO ONE IN PARADISE. </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0034"> THE COLISEUM. </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0035"> THE HAUNTED PALACE. </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0036"> THE CONQUEROR WORM. </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0037"> SILENCE </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0038"> DREAM-LAND </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0039"> HYMN </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0040"> TO ZANTE </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0041"> SCENES FROM “POLITIAN” </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0042"> POEMS OF YOUTH </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_INTR"> INTRODUCTION TO POEMS—1831 </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0044"> <i>LETTER TO MR. B—.</i> </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0045"> SONNET—TO SCIENCE </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0046"> AL AARAAF </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0047"> TAMERLANE </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0048"> TO HELEN </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0049"> THE VALLEY OF UNREST </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0050"> ISRAFEL </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0051"> TO —— </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0052"> TO —— </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0053"> TO THE RIVER—— </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0054"> SONG </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0055"> SPIRITS OF THE DEAD </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0056"> A DREAM </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0057"> ROMANCE </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0058"> FAIRY-LAND </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0059"> THE LAKE —— TO——
      </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0060"> EVENING STAR </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0061"> “THE HAPPIEST DAY.” </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0062"> IMITATION </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0063"> HYMN TO ARISTOGEITON AND HARMODIUS </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0064"> DREAMS </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0065"> “IN YOUTH I HAVE KNOWN ONE” </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_NOTE2"> NOTES </a>
</p>
<p>
<br/>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0067"> <big><b>DOUBTFUL POEMS</b></big> </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0068"> ALONE </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0069"> TO ISADORE </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0070"> THE VILLAGE STREET </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_4_0071"> THE FOREST REVERIE </a>
</p>
<p class="toc">
<a href="#2151link2H_NOTE3"> NOTES </a>
</p>
<p>
<br/> <br/>
</p>
<hr/>
<p>
<br/> <br/> <a name="2151link2H_4_0001">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      PHILOSOPHY OF FURNITURE.
    </h2>
<p>
      In the internal decoration, if not in the external architecture of their
      residences, the English are supreme. The Italians have but little
      sentiment beyond marbles and colours. In France, <i>meliora probant,
      deteriora </i>sequuntur—the people are too much a race of gadabouts
      to maintain those household proprieties of which, indeed, they have a
      delicate appreciation, or at least the elements of a proper sense. The
      Chinese and most of the eastern races have a warm but inappropriate fancy.
      The Scotch are <i>poor </i>decorists. The Dutch have, perhaps, an
      indeterminate idea that a curtain is not a cabbage. In Spain they are <i>all
      </i>curtains—a nation of hangmen. The Russians do not furnish. The
      Hottentots and Kickapoos are very well in their way. The Yankees alone are
      preposterous.
    </p>
<p>
      How this happens, it is not difficult to see. We have no aristocracy of
      blood, and having therefore as a natural, and indeed as an inevitable
      thing, fashioned for ourselves an aristocracy of dollars, the <i>display
      of wealth </i>has here to take the place and perform the office of the
      heraldic display in monarchical countries. By a transition readily
      understood, and which might have been as readily foreseen, we have been
      brought to merge in simple <i>show</i> our notions of taste itself.
    </p>
<p>
      To speak less abstractly. In England, for example, no mere parade of
      costly appurtenances would be so likely as with us, to create an
      impression of the beautiful in respect to the appurtenances themselves—or
      of taste as regards the proprietor:—this for the reason, first, that
      wealth is not, in England, the loftiest object of ambition as constituting
      a nobility; and secondly, that there, the true nobility of blood,
      confining itself within the strict limits of legitimate taste, rather
      avoids than affects that mere costliness in which a <i>parvenu </i>rivalry
      may at any time be successfully attempted.
    </p>
<p>
      The people <i>will </i>imitate the nobles, and the result is a thorough
      diffusion of the proper feeling. But in America, the coins current being
      the sole arms of the aristocracy, their display may be said, in general,
      to be the sole means of the aristocratic distinction; and the populace,
      looking always upward for models, are insensibly led to confound the two
      entirely separate ideas of magnificence and beauty. In short, the cost of
      an article of furniture has at length come to be, with us, nearly the sole
      test of its merit in a decorative point of view—and this test, once
      established, has led the way to many analogous errors, readily traceable
      to the one primitive folly.
    </p>
<p>
      There could be nothing more directly offensive to the eye of an artist
      than the interior of what is termed in the United States—that is to
      say, in Appallachia—a well-furnished apartment. Its most usual
      defect is a want of keeping. We speak of the keeping of a room as we would
      of the keeping of a picture—for both the picture and the room are
      amenable to those undeviating principles which regulate all varieties of
      art; and very nearly the same laws by which we decide on the higher merits
      of a painting, suffice for decision on the adjustment of a chamber.
    </p>
<p>
      A want of keeping is observable sometimes in the character of the several
      pieces of furniture, but generally in their colours or modes of adaptation
      to use <i>Very </i>often the eye is offended by their inartistic
      arrangement. Straight lines are too prevalent—too uninterruptedly
      continued—or clumsily interrupted at right angles. If curved lines
      occur, they are repeated into unpleasant uniformity. By undue precision,
      the appearance of many a fine apartment is utterly spoiled.
    </p>
<p>
      Curtains are rarely well disposed, or well chosen in respect to other
      decorations. With formal furniture, curtains are out of place; and an
      extensive volume of drapery of any kind is, under any circumstance,
      irreconcilable with good taste—the proper quantum, as well as the
      proper adjustment, depending upon the character of the general effect.
    </p>
<p>
      Carpets are better understood of late than of ancient days, but we still
      very frequently err in their patterns and colours. The soul of the
      apartment is the carpet. From it are deduced not only the hues but the
      forms of all objects incumbent. A judge at common law may be an ordinary
      man; a good judge of a carpet <i>must be </i>a genius. Yet we have heard
      discoursing of carpets, with the air “<i>d’un mouton qui reve,”
      </i>fellows who should not and who could not be entrusted with the
      management of their own <i>moustaches. </i>Every one knows that a large
      floor <i>may </i>have a covering of large figures, and that a small one
      must have a covering of small—yet this is not all the knowledge in
      the world. As regards texture, the Saxony is alone admissible. Brussels is
      the preterpluperfect tense of fashion, and Turkey is taste in its dying
      agonies. Touching pattern—a carpet should <i>not </i>be bedizzened
      out like a Riccaree Indian—all red chalk, yellow ochre, and cock’s
      feathers. In brief—distinct grounds, and vivid circular or cycloid
      figures, <i>of no meaning, </i>are here Median laws. The abomination of
      flowers, or representations of well-known objects of any kind, should not
      be endured within the limits of Christendom. Indeed, whether on carpets,
      or curtains, or tapestry, or ottoman coverings, all upholstery of this
      nature should be rigidly Arabesque. As for those antique floor-cloth &amp;
      still occasionally seen in the dwellings of the rabble—cloths of
      huge, sprawling, and radiating devises, stripe-interspersed, and glorious
      with all hues, among which no ground is intelligible—these are but
      the wicked invention of a race of time-servers and money-lovers—children
      of Baal and worshippers of Mammon—Benthams, who, to spare thought
      and economize fancy, first cruelly invented the Kaleidoscope, and then
      established joint-stock companies to twirl it by steam.
    </p>
<p>
<i>Glare</i> is a leading error in the philosophy of American household
      decoration—an error easily recognised as deduced from the perversion
      of taste just specified., We are violently enamoured of gas and of glass.
      The former is totally inadmissible within doors. Its harsh and unsteady
      light offends. No one having both brains and eyes will use it. A mild, or
      what artists term a cool light, with its consequent warm shadows, will do
      wonders for even an ill-furnished apartment. Never was a more lovely
      thought than that of the astral lamp. We mean, of course, the astral lamp
      proper—the lamp of Argand, with its original plain ground-glass
      shade, and its tempered and uniform moonlight rays. The cut-glass shade is
      a weak invention of the enemy. The eagerness with which we have adopted
      it, partly on account of its <i>flashiness,</i> but principally on account
      of its <i>greater rest,</i> is a good commentary on the proposition with
      which we began. It is not too much to say, that the deliberate employer of
      a cut-glass shade, is either radically deficient in taste, or blindly
      subservient to the caprices of fashion. The light proceeding from one of
      these gaudy abominations is unequal broken, and painful. It alone is
      sufficient to mar a world of good effect in the furniture subjected to its
      influence. Female loveliness, in especial, is more than one-half
      disenchanted beneath its evil eye.
    </p>
<p>
      In the matter of glass, generally, we proceed upon false principles. Its
      leading feature is <i>glitter—</i>and in that one word how much of
      all that is detestable do we express! Flickering, unquiet lights, are <i>sometimes
      </i>pleasing—to children and idiots always so—but in the
      embellishment of a room they should be scrupulously avoided. In truth,
      even strong <i>steady </i>lights are inadmissible. The huge and unmeaning
      glass chandeliers, prism-cut, gas-lighted, and without shade, which dangle
      in our most fashionable drawing-rooms, may be cited as the quintessence of
      all that is false in taste or preposterous in folly.
    </p>
<p>
      The rage for <i>glitter-</i>because its idea has become as we before
      observed, confounded with that of magnificence in the abstract—has
      led us, also, to the exaggerated employment of mirrors. We line our
      dwellings with great British plates, and then imagine we have done a fine
      thing. Now the slightest thought will be sufficient to convince any one
      who has an eye at all, of the ill effect of numerous looking-glasses, and
      especially of large ones. Regarded apart from its reflection, the mirror
      presents a continuous, flat, colourless, unrelieved surface,—a thing
      always and obviously unpleasant. Considered as a reflector, it is potent
      in producing a monstrous and odious uniformity: and the evil is here
      aggravated, not in merely direct proportion with the augmentation of its
      sources, but in a ratio constantly increasing. In fact, a room with four
      or five mirrors arranged at random, is, for all purposes of artistic show,
      a room of no shape at all. If we add to this evil, the attendant glitter
      upon glitter, we have a perfect farrago of discordant and displeasing
      effects. The veriest bumpkin, on entering an apartment so bedizzened,
      would be instantly aware of something wrong, although he might be
      altogether unable to assign a cause for his dissatisfaction. But let the
      same person be led into a room tastefully furnished, and he would be
      startled into an exclamation of pleasure and surprise.
    </p>
<p>
      It is an evil growing out of our republican institutions, that here a man
      of large purse has usually a very little soul which he keeps in it. The
      corruption of taste is a portion or a pendant of the dollar-manufacture.
      As we grow rich, our ideas grow rusty. It is, therefore, not among <i>our
      </i>aristocracy that we must look (if at all, in Appallachia), for the
      spirituality of a British <i>boudoir. </i>But we have seen apartments in
      the tenure of Americans of moderns [possibly “modest” or
      “moderate”] means, which, in negative merit at least, might
      vie with any of the <i>or-molu’d </i>cabinets of our friends across
      the water. Even <i>now</i>, there is present to our mind’s eye a
      small and not, ostentatious chamber with whose decorations no fault can be
      found. The proprietor lies asleep on a sofa—the weather is cool—the
      time is near midnight: we will make a sketch of the room during his
      slumber.
    </p>
<p>
      It is oblong—some thirty feet in length and twenty-five in breadth—a
      shape affording the best(ordinary) opportunities for the adjustment of
      furniture. It has but one door—by no means a wide one—which is
      at one end of the parallelogram, and but two windows, which are at the
      other. These latter are large, reaching down to the floor—have deep
      recesses—and open on an Italian <i>veranda. </i>Their panes are of a
      crimson-tinted glass, set in rose-wood framings, more massive than usual.
      They are curtained within the recess, by a thick silver tissue adapted to
      the shape of the window, and hanging loosely in small volumes. Without the
      recess are curtains of an exceedingly rich crimson silk, fringed with a
      deep network of gold, and lined with silver tissue, which is the material
      of the exterior blind. There are no cornices; but the folds of the whole
      fabric (which are sharp rather than massive, and have an airy appearance),
      issue from beneath a broad entablature of rich giltwork, which encircles
      the room at the junction of the ceiling and walls. The drapery is thrown
      open also, or closed, by means of a thick rope of gold loosely enveloping
      it, and resolving itself readily into a knot; no pins or other such
      devices are apparent. The colours of the curtains and their fringe—the
      tints of crimson and gold—appear everywhere in profusion, and
      determine the <i>character </i>of the room. The carpet—of Saxony
      material—is quite half an inch thick, and is of the same crimson
      ground, relieved simply by the appearance of a gold cord (like that
      festooning the curtains) slightly relieved above the surface of the <i>ground,
      </i>and thrown upon it in such a manner as to form a succession of short
      irregular curves—one occasionally overlaying the other. The walls
      are prepared with a glossy paper of a silver gray tint, spotted with small
      Arabesque devices of a fainter hue of the prevalent crimson. Many
      paintings relieve the expanse of paper. These are chiefly landscapes of an
      imaginative cast—such as the fairy grottoes of Stanfield, or the
      lake of the Dismal Swamp of Chapman. There are, nevertheless, three or
      four female heads, of an ethereal beauty-portraits in the manner of Sully.
      The tone of each picture is warm, but dark. There are no “brilliant
      effects.” <i>Repose </i>speaks in all. Not one is of small size.
      Diminutive paintings give that <i>spotty </i>look to a room, which is the
      blemish of so many a fine work of Art overtouched. The frames are broad
      but not deep, and richly carved, without being <i>dulled </i>or filagreed.
      They have the whole lustre of burnished gold. They lie flat on the walls,
      and do not hang off with cords. The designs themselves are often seen to
      better advantage in this latter position, but the general appearance of
      the chamber is injured. But one mirror—and this not a very large one—is
      visible. In shape it is nearly circular—and it is hung so that a
      reflection of the person can be obtained from it in none of the ordinary
      sitting-places of the room. Two large low sofas of rosewood and crimson
      silk, gold-flowered, form the only seats, with the exception of two light
      conversation chairs, also of rose-wood. There is a pianoforte (rose-wood,
      also), without cover, and thrown open. An octagonal table, formed
      altogether of the richest gold-threaded marble, is placed near one of the
      sofas. This is also without cover—the drapery of the curtains has
      been thought sufficient.. Four large and gorgeous Sevres vases, in which
      bloom a profusion of sweet and vivid flowers, occupy the slightly rounded
      angles of the room. A tall candelabrum, bearing a small antique lamp with
      highly perfumed oil, is standing near the head of my sleeping friend. Some
      light and graceful hanging shelves, with golden edges and crimson silk
      cords with gold tassels, sustain two or three hundred magnificently bound
      books. Beyond these things, there is no furniture, if we except an Argand
      lamp, with a plain crimson-tinted ground glass shade, which depends from
      He lofty vaulted ceiling by a single slender gold chain, and throws a
      tranquil but magical radiance over all.
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0002">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      A TALE OF JERUSALEM
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     Intensos rigidarn in frontern ascendere canos

     Passus erat——
        —Lucan—De Catone

    ——a bristly bore.
</pre>
<p>
      “LET us hurry to the walls,” said Abel-Phittim to
      Buzi-Ben-Levi and Simeon the Pharisee, on the tenth day of the month
      Thammuz, in the year of the world three thousand nine hundred and
      forty-one—let us hasten to the ramparts adjoining the gate of
      Benjamin, which is in the city of David, and overlooking the camp of the
      uncircumcised; for it is the last hour of the fourth watch, being sunrise;
      and the idolaters, in fulfilment of the promise of Pompey, should be
      awaiting us with the lambs for the sacrifices.”
    </p>
<p>
      Simeon, Abel-Phittim, and Duzi-Ben-Levi were the Gizbarim, or
      sub-collectors of the offering, in the holy city of Jerusalem.
    </p>
<p>
      “Verily,” replied the Pharisee; “let us hasten: for this
      generosity in the heathen is unwonted; and fickle-mindedness has ever been
      an attribute of the worshippers of Baal.”
    </p>
<p>
      “‘That they are fickle-minded and treacherous is as true as
      the Pentateuch,” said Buzi-Ben-Levi, “but that is only toward
      the people of Adonai. When was it ever known that the Ammonites proved
      wanting to their own interests? Methinks it is no great stretch of
      generosity to allow us lambs for the altar of the Lord, receiving in lieu
      thereof thirty silver shekels per head!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Thou forgettest, however, Ben-Levi,” replied Abel-Phittim,
      “that the Roman Pompey, who is now impiously besieging the city of
      the Most High, has no assurity that we apply not the lambs thus purchased
      for the altar, to the sustenance of the body, rather than of the spirit.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Now, by the five corners of my beard!” shouted the Pharisee,
      who belonged to the sect called The Dashers (that little knot of saints
      whose manner of <i>dashing </i>and lacerating the feet against the
      pavement was long a thorn and a reproach to less zealous devotees-a
      stumbling-block to less gifted perambulators)—“by the five
      corners of that beard which, as a priest, I am forbidden to shave!-have we
      lived to see the day when a blaspheming and idolatrous upstart of Rome
      shall accuse us of appropriating to the appetites of the flesh the most
      holy and consecrated elements? Have we lived to see the day when—“’
    </p>
<p>
      “Let us not question the motives of the Philistine,”
      interrupted Abel-Phittim’ “for to-day we profit for the first
      time by his avarice or by his generosity; but rather let us hurry to the
      ramparts, lest offerings should be wanting for that altar whose fire the
      rains of heaven can not extinguish, and whose pillars of smoke no tempest
      can turn aside.”
    </p>
<p>
      That part of the city to which our worthy Gizbarim now hastened, and which
      bore the name of its architect, King David, was esteemed the most strongly
      fortified district of Jerusalem; being situated upon the steep and lofty
      hill of Zion. Here, a broad, deep, circumvallatory trench, hewn from the
      solid rock, was defended by a wall of great strength erected upon its
      inner edge. This wall was adorned, at regular interspaces, by square
      towers of white marble; the lowest sixty, and the highest one hundred and
      twenty cubits in height. But, in the vicinity of the gate of Benjamin, the
      wall arose by no means from the margin of the fosse. On the contrary,
      between the level of the ditch and the basement of the rampart sprang up a
      perpendicular cliff of two hundred and fifty cubits, forming part of the
      precipitous Mount Moriah. So that when Simeon and his associates arrived
      on the summit of the tower called Adoni-Bezek-the loftiest of all the
      turrets around about Jerusalem, and the usual place of conference with the
      besieging army-they looked down upon the camp of the enemy from an
      eminence excelling by many feet that of the Pyramid of Cheops, and, by
      several, that of the temple of Belus.
    </p>
<p>
      “Verily,” sighed the Pharisee, as he peered dizzily over the
      precipice, “the uncircumcised are as the sands by the seashore-as
      the locusts in the wilderness! The valley of the King hath become the
      valley of Adommin.”
    </p>
<p>
      “And yet,” added Ben-Levi, “thou canst not point me out
      a Philistine-no, not one-from Aleph to Tau-from the wilderness to the
      battlements—who seemeth any bigger than the letter Jod!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Lower away the basket with the shekels of silver!” here
      shouted a Roman soldier in a hoarse, rough voice, which appeared to issue
      from the regions of Pluto—“lower away the basket with the
      accursed coin which it has broken the jaw of a noble Roman to pronounce!
      Is it thus you evince your gratitude to our master Pompeius, who, in his
      condescension, has thought fit to listen to your idolatrous importunities?
      The god Phoebus, who is a true god, has been charioted for an hour-and
      were you not to be on the ramparts by sunrise? Aedepol! do you think that
      we, the conquerors of the world, have nothing better to do than stand
      waiting by the walls of every kennel, to traffic with the dogs of the
      earth? Lower away! I say—and see that your trumpery be bright in
      color and just in weight!”
    </p>
<p>
      “El Elohim!” ejaculated the Pharisee, as the discordant tones
      of the centurion rattled up the crags of the precipice, and fainted away
      against the temple—“El Elohim!—who is the god Phoebus?—whom
      doth the blasphemer invoke? Thou, Buzi-Ben-Levi! who art read in the laws
      of the Gentiles, and hast sojourned among them who dabble with the
      Teraphim!—is it Nergal of whom the idolater speaketh?—-or
      Ashimah?—or Nibhaz,—or Tartak?—or Adramalech?—or
      Anamalech?—or Succoth-Benith?—or Dagon?—or Belial?—or
      Baal-Perith?—or Baal-Peor?—or Baal-Zebub?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Verily it is neither-but beware how thou lettest the rope slip too
      rapidly through thy fingers; for should the wicker-work chance to hang on
      the projection of Yonder crag, there will be a woful outpouring of the
      holy things of the sanctuary.”
    </p>
<p>
      By the assistance of some rudely constructed machinery, the heavily laden
      basket was now carefully lowered down among the multitude; and, from the
      giddy pinnacle, the Romans were seen gathering confusedly round it; but
      owing to the vast height and the prevalence of a fog, no distinct view of
      their operations could be obtained.
    </p>
<p>
      Half an hour had already elapsed.
    </p>
<p>
      “We shall be too late!” sighed the Pharisee, as at the
      expiration of this period he looked over into the abyss-“we shall be
      too late! we shall be turned out of office by the Katholim.”
    </p>
<p>
      “No more,” responded Abel-Phittim—-“no more shall
      we feast upon the fat of the land-no longer shall our beards be odorous
      with frankincense—our loins girded up with fine linen from the
      Temple.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Racal” swore Ben-Levi, “Racal do they mean to defraud
      us of the purchase money? or, Holy Moses! are they weighing the shekels of
      the tabernacle?”
    </p>
<p>
      “They have given the signal at last!” cried the Pharisee——-“they
      have given the signal at last! pull away, Abel-Phittim!—and thou,
      Buzi-Ben-Levi, pull away!—for verily the Philistines have either
      still hold upon the basket, or the Lord hath softened their hearts to
      place therein a beast of good weight!” And the Gizbarim pulled away,
      while their burden swung heavily upward through the still increasing mist.
    </p>
<p>
      “Booshoh he!”—as, at the conclusion of an hour, some
      object at the extremity of the rope became indistinctly visible—“Booshoh
      he!” was the exclamation which burst from the lips of Ben-Levi.
    </p>
<hr/>
<p>
      “Booshoh he!—for shame!—it is a ram from the thickets of
      Engedi, and as rugged as the valley of jehosaphat!”
    </p>
<p>
      “It is a firstling of the flock,” said Abel-Phittim, “I
      know him by the bleating of his lips, and the innocent folding of his
      limbs. His eyes are more beautiful than the jewels of the Pectoral, and
      his flesh is like the honey of Hebron.”
    </p>
<p>
      “It is a fatted calf from the pastures of Bashan,” said the
      Pharisee, “the heathen have dealt wonderfully with us——let
      us raise up our voices in a psalm—let us give thanks on the shawm
      and on the psaltery-on the harp and on the huggab-on the cythern and on
      the sackbut!”
    </p>
<p>
      It was not until the basket had arrived within a few feet of the Gizbarim
      that a low grunt betrayed to their perception a hog of no common size.
    </p>
<p>
      “Now El Emanu!” slowly and with upturned eyes ejaculated the
      trio, as, letting go their hold, the emancipated porker tumbled headlong
      among the Philistines, “El Emanu!-God be with us—it is <i>the
      unutterable flesh!”</i>
</p>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0003">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      THE SPHINX
    </h2>
<p>
      DURING the dread reign of the Cholera in New York, I had accepted the
      invitation of a relative to spend a fortnight with him in the retirement
      of his <i>cottage ornee</i> on the banks of the Hudson. We had here around
      us all the ordinary means of summer amusement; and what with rambling in
      the woods, sketching, boating, fishing, bathing, music, and books, we
      should have passed the time pleasantly enough, but for the fearful
      intelligence which reached us every morning from the populous city. Not a
      day elapsed which did not bring us news of the decease of some
      acquaintance. Then as the fatality increased, we learned to expect daily
      the loss of some friend. At length we trembled at the approach of every
      messenger. The very air from the South seemed to us redolent with death.
      That palsying thought, indeed, took entire possession of my soul. I could
      neither speak, think, nor dream of any thing else. My host was of a less
      excitable temperament, and, although greatly depressed in spirits, exerted
      himself to sustain my own. His richly philosophical intellect was not at
      any time affected by unrealities. To the substances of terror he was
      sufficiently alive, but of its shadows he had no apprehension.
    </p>
<p>
      His endeavors to arouse me from the condition of abnormal gloom into which
      I had fallen, were frustrated, in great measure, by certain volumes which
      I had found in his library. These were of a character to force into
      germination whatever seeds of hereditary superstition lay latent in my
      bosom. I had been reading these books without his knowledge, and thus he
      was often at a loss to account for the forcible impressions which had been
      made upon my fancy.
    </p>
<p>
      A favorite topic with me was the popular belief in omens—a belief
      which, at this one epoch of my life, I was almost seriously disposed to
      defend. On this subject we had long and animated discussions—he
      maintaining the utter groundlessness of faith in such matters,—I
      contending that a popular sentiment arising with absolute spontaneity-
      that is to say, without apparent traces of suggestion—had in itself
      the unmistakable elements of truth, and was entitled to as much respect as
      that intuition which is the idiosyncrasy of the individual man of genius.
    </p>
<p>
      The fact is, that soon after my arrival at the cottage there had occurred
      to myself an incident so entirely inexplicable, and which had in it so
      much of the portentous character, that I might well have been excused for
      regarding it as an omen. It appalled, and at the same time so confounded
      and bewildered me, that many days elapsed before I could make up my mind
      to communicate the circumstances to my friend.
    </p>
<p>
      Near the close of exceedingly warm day, I was sitting, book in hand, at an
      open window, commanding, through a long vista of the river banks, a view
      of a distant hill, the face of which nearest my position had been denuded
      by what is termed a land-slide, of the principal portion of its trees. My
      thoughts had been long wandering from the volume before me to the gloom
      and desolation of the neighboring city. Uplifting my eyes from the page,
      they fell upon the naked face of the bill, and upon an object—upon
      some living monster of hideous conformation, which very rapidly made its
      way from the summit to the bottom, disappearing finally in the dense
      forest below. As this creature first came in sight, I doubted my own
      sanity—or at least the evidence of my own eyes; and many minutes
      passed before I succeeded in convincing myself that I was neither mad nor
      in a dream. Yet when I described the monster (which I distinctly saw, and
      calmly surveyed through the whole period of its progress), my readers, I
      fear, will feel more difficulty in being convinced of these points than
      even I did myself.
    </p>
<p>
      Estimating the size of the creature by comparison with the diameter of the
      large trees near which it passed—the few giants of the forest which
      had escaped the fury of the land-slide—I concluded it to be far
      larger than any ship of the line in existence. I say ship of the line,
      because the shape of the monster suggested the idea—the hull of one
      of our seventy-four might convey a very tolerable conception of the
      general outline. The mouth of the animal was situated at the extremity of
      a proboscis some sixty or seventy feet in length, and about as thick as
      the body of an ordinary elephant. Near the root of this trunk was an
      immense quantity of black shaggy hair—more than could have been
      supplied by the coats of a score of buffaloes; and projecting from this
      hair downwardly and laterally, sprang two gleaming tusks not unlike those
      of the wild boar, but of infinitely greater dimensions. Extending forward,
      parallel with the proboscis, and on each side of it, was a gigantic staff,
      thirty or forty feet in length, formed seemingly of pure crystal and in
      shape a perfect prism,—it reflected in the most gorgeous manner the
      rays of the declining sun. The trunk was fashioned like a wedge with the
      apex to the earth. From it there were outspread two pairs of wings—each
      wing nearly one hundred yards in length—one pair being placed above
      the other, and all thickly covered with metal scales; each scale
      apparently some ten or twelve feet in diameter. I observed that the upper
      and lower tiers of wings were connected by a strong chain. But the chief
      peculiarity of this horrible thing was the representation of a Death’s
      Head, which covered nearly the whole surface of its breast, and which was
      as accurately traced in glaring white, upon the dark ground of the body,
      as if it had been there carefully designed by an artist. While I regarded
      the terrific animal, and more especially the appearance on its breast,
      with a feeling or horror and awe—with a sentiment of forthcoming
      evil, which I found it impossible to quell by any effort of the reason, I
      perceived the huge jaws at the extremity of the proboscis suddenly expand
      themselves, and from them there proceeded a sound so loud and so
      expressive of wo, that it struck upon my nerves like a knell and as the
      monster disappeared at the foot of the hill, I fell at once, fainting, to
      the floor.
    </p>
<p>
      Upon recovering, my first impulse, of course, was to inform my friend of
      what I had seen and heard—and I can scarcely explain what feeling of
      repugnance it was which, in the end, operated to prevent me.
    </p>
<p>
      At length, one evening, some three or four days after the occurrence, we
      were sitting together in the room in which I had seen the apparition—I
      occupying the same seat at the same window, and he lounging on a sofa near
      at hand. The association of the place and time impelled me to give him an
      account of the phenomenon. He heard me to the end—at first laughed
      heartily—and then lapsed into an excessively grave demeanor, as if
      my insanity was a thing beyond suspicion. At this instant I again had a
      distinct view of the monster—to which, with a shout of absolute
      terror, I now directed his attention. He looked eagerly—but
      maintained that he saw nothing—although I designated minutely the
      course of the creature, as it made its way down the naked face of the
      hill.
    </p>
<p>
      I was now immeasurably alarmed, for I considered the vision either as an
      omen of my death, or, worse, as the fore-runner of an attack of mania. I
      threw myself passionately back in my chair, and for some moments buried my
      face in my hands. When I uncovered my eyes, the apparition was no longer
      apparent.
    </p>
<p>
      My host, however, had in some degree resumed the calmness of his demeanor,
      and questioned me very rigorously in respect to the conformation of the
      visionary creature. When I had fully satisfied him on this head, he sighed
      deeply, as if relieved of some intolerable burden, and went on to talk,
      with what I thought a cruel calmness, of various points of speculative
      philosophy, which had heretofore formed subject of discussion between us.
      I remember his insisting very especially (among other things) upon the
      idea that the principle source of error in all human investigations lay in
      the liability of the understanding to under-rate or to over-value the
      importance of an object, through mere mis-admeasurement of its
      propinquity. “To estimate properly, for example,” he said,
      “the influence to be exercised on mankind at large by the thorough
      diffusion of Democracy, the distance of the epoch at which such diffusion
      may possibly be accomplished should not fail to form an item in the
      estimate. Yet can you tell me one writer on the subject of government who
      has ever thought this particular branch of the subject worthy of
      discussion at all?”
    </p>
<p>
      He here paused for a moment, stepped to a book-case, and brought forth one
      of the ordinary synopses of Natural History. Requesting me then to
      exchange seats with him, that he might the better distinguish the fine
      print of the volume, he took my armchair at the window, and, opening the
      book, resumed his discourse very much in the same tone as before.
    </p>
<p>
      “But for your exceeding minuteness,” he said, “in
      describing the monster, I might never have had it in my power to
      demonstrate to you what it was. In the first place, let me read to you a
      schoolboy account of the genus Sphinx, of the family Crepuscularia of the
      order Lepidoptera, of the class of Insecta—or insects. The account
      runs thus:
    </p>
<p>
      “‘Four membranous wings covered with little colored scales of
      metallic appearance; mouth forming a rolled proboscis, produced by an
      elongation of the jaws, upon the sides of which are found the rudiments of
      mandibles and downy palpi; the inferior wings retained to the superior by
      a stiff hair; antennae in the form of an elongated club, prismatic;
      abdomen pointed, The Death’s—headed Sphinx has occasioned much
      terror among the vulgar, at times, by the melancholy kind of cry which it
      utters, and the insignia of death which it wears upon its corslet.’”
    </p>
<p>
      He here closed the book and leaned forward in the chair, placing himself
      accurately in the position which I had occupied at the moment of beholding
      “the monster.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Ah, here it is,” he presently exclaimed—“it is
      reascending the face of the hill, and a very remarkable looking creature I
      admit it to be. Still, it is by no means so large or so distant as you
      imagined it,—for the fact is that, as it wriggles its way up this
      thread, which some spider has wrought along the window-sash, I find it to
      be about the sixteenth of an inch in its extreme length, and also about
      the sixteenth of an inch distant from the pupil of my eye.”
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0004">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      HOP-FROG
    </h2>
<p>
      I never knew anyone so keenly alive to a joke as the king was. He seemed
      to live only for joking. To tell a good story of the joke kind, and to
      tell it well, was the surest road to his favor. Thus it happened that his
      seven ministers were all noted for their accomplishments as jokers. They
      all took after the king, too, in being large, corpulent, oily men, as well
      as inimitable jokers. Whether people grow fat by joking, or whether there
      is something in fat itself which predisposes to a joke, I have never been
      quite able to determine; but certain it is that a lean joker is a rara
      avis in terris.
    </p>
<p>
      About the refinements, or, as he called them, the ‘ghost’ of
      wit, the king troubled himself very little. He had an especial admiration
      for breadth in a jest, and would often put up with length, for the sake of
      it. Over-niceties wearied him. He would have preferred Rabelais’
      ‘Gargantua’ to the ‘Zadig’ of Voltaire: and, upon
      the whole, practical jokes suited his taste far better than verbal ones.
    </p>
<p>
      At the date of my narrative, professing jesters had not altogether gone
      out of fashion at court. Several of the great continental ‘powers’
      still retain their ‘fools,’ who wore motley, with caps and
      bells, and who were expected to be always ready with sharp witticisms, at
      a moment’s notice, in consideration of the crumbs that fell from the
      royal table.
    </p>
<p>
      Our king, as a matter of course, retained his ‘fool.’ The fact
      is, he required something in the way of folly—if only to
      counterbalance the heavy wisdom of the seven wise men who were his
      ministers—not to mention himself.
    </p>
<p>
      His fool, or professional jester, was not only a fool, however. His value
      was trebled in the eyes of the king, by the fact of his being also a dwarf
      and a cripple. Dwarfs were as common at court, in those days, as fools;
      and many monarchs would have found it difficult to get through their days
      (days are rather longer at court than elsewhere) without both a jester to
      laugh with, and a dwarf to laugh at. But, as I have already observed, your
      jesters, in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, are fat, round, and
      unwieldy—so that it was no small source of self-gratulation with our
      king that, in Hop-Frog (this was the fool’s name), he possessed a
      triplicate treasure in one person.
    </p>
<p>
      I believe the name ‘Hop-Frog’ was not that given to the dwarf
      by his sponsors at baptism, but it was conferred upon him, by general
      consent of the several ministers, on account of his inability to walk as
      other men do. In fact, Hop-Frog could only get along by a sort of
      interjectional gait—something between a leap and a wriggle—a
      movement that afforded illimitable amusement, and of course consolation,
      to the king, for (notwithstanding the protuberance of his stomach and a
      constitutional swelling of the head) the king, by his whole court, was
      accounted a capital figure.
    </p>
<p>
      But although Hop-Frog, through the distortion of his legs, could move only
      with great pain and difficulty along a road or floor, the prodigious
      muscular power which nature seemed to have bestowed upon his arms, by way
      of compensation for deficiency in the lower limbs, enabled him to perform
      many feats of wonderful dexterity, where trees or ropes were in question,
      or any thing else to climb. At such exercises he certainly much more
      resembled a squirrel, or a small monkey, than a frog.
    </p>
<p>
      I am not able to say, with precision, from what country Hop-Frog
      originally came. It was from some barbarous region, however, that no
      person ever heard of—a vast distance from the court of our king.
      Hop-Frog, and a young girl very little less dwarfish than himself
      (although of exquisite proportions, and a marvellous dancer), had been
      forcibly carried off from their respective homes in adjoining provinces,
      and sent as presents to the king, by one of his ever-victorious generals.
    </p>
<p>
      Under these circumstances, it is not to be wondered at that a close
      intimacy arose between the two little captives. Indeed, they soon became
      sworn friends. Hop-Frog, who, although he made a great deal of sport, was
      by no means popular, had it not in his power to render Trippetta many
      services; but she, on account of her grace and exquisite beauty (although
      a dwarf), was universally admired and petted; so she possessed much
      influence; and never failed to use it, whenever she could, for the benefit
      of Hop-Frog.
    </p>
<p>
      On some grand state occasion—I forgot what—the king determined
      to have a masquerade, and whenever a masquerade or any thing of that kind,
      occurred at our court, then the talents, both of Hop-Frog and Trippetta
      were sure to be called into play. Hop-Frog, in especial, was so inventive
      in the way of getting up pageants, suggesting novel characters, and
      arranging costumes, for masked balls, that nothing could be done, it
      seems, without his assistance.
    </p>
<p>
      The night appointed for the fete had arrived. A gorgeous hall had been
      fitted up, under Trippetta’s eye, with every kind of device which
      could possibly give eclat to a masquerade. The whole court was in a fever
      of expectation. As for costumes and characters, it might well be supposed
      that everybody had come to a decision on such points. Many had made up
      their minds (as to what roles they should assume) a week, or even a month,
      in advance; and, in fact, there was not a particle of indecision anywhere—except
      in the case of the king and his seven minsters. Why they hesitated I never
      could tell, unless they did it by way of a joke. More probably, they found
      it difficult, on account of being so fat, to make up their minds. At all
      events, time flew; and, as a last resort they sent for Trippetta and
      Hop-Frog.
    </p>
<p>
      When the two little friends obeyed the summons of the king they found him
      sitting at his wine with the seven members of his cabinet council; but the
      monarch appeared to be in a very ill humor. He knew that Hop-Frog was not
      fond of wine, for it excited the poor cripple almost to madness; and
      madness is no comfortable feeling. But the king loved his practical jokes,
      and took pleasure in forcing Hop-Frog to drink and (as the king called it)
      ‘to be merry.’
    </p>
<p>
      “Come here, Hop-Frog,” said he, as the jester and his friend
      entered the room; “swallow this bumper to the health of your absent
      friends, [here Hop-Frog sighed,] and then let us have the benefit of your
      invention. We want characters—characters, man—something novel—out
      of the way. We are wearied with this everlasting sameness. Come, drink!
      the wine will brighten your wits.”
    </p>
<p>
      Hop-Frog endeavored, as usual, to get up a jest in reply to these advances
      from the king; but the effort was too much. It happened to be the poor
      dwarf’s birthday, and the command to drink to his ‘absent
      friends’ forced the tears to his eyes. Many large, bitter drops fell
      into the goblet as he took it, humbly, from the hand of the tyrant.
    </p>
<p>
      “Ah! ha! ha!” roared the latter, as the dwarf reluctantly
      drained the beaker.—“See what a glass of good wine can do!
      Why, your eyes are shining already!”
    </p>
<p>
      Poor fellow! his large eyes gleamed, rather than shone; for the effect of
      wine on his excitable brain was not more powerful than instantaneous. He
      placed the goblet nervously on the table, and looked round upon the
      company with a half—insane stare. They all seemed highly amused at
      the success of the king’s ‘joke.’
    </p>
<p>
      “And now to business,” said the prime minister, a very fat
      man.
    </p>
<p>
      “Yes,” said the King; “Come lend us your assistance.
      Characters, my fine fellow; we stand in need of characters—all of us—ha!
      ha! ha!” and as this was seriously meant for a joke, his laugh was
      chorused by the seven.
    </p>
<p>
      Hop-Frog also laughed although feebly and somewhat vacantly.
    </p>
<p>
      “Come, come,” said the king, impatiently, “have you
      nothing to suggest?”
    </p>
<p>
      “I am endeavoring to think of something novel,” replied the
      dwarf, abstractedly, for he was quite bewildered by the wine.
    </p>
<p>
      “Endeavoring!” cried the tyrant, fiercely; “what do you
      mean by that? Ah, I perceive. You are Sulky, and want more wine. Here,
      drink this!” and he poured out another goblet full and offered it to
      the cripple, who merely gazed at it, gasping for breath.
    </p>
<p>
      “Drink, I say!” shouted the monster, “or by the fiends-”
    </p>
<p>
      The dwarf hesitated. The king grew purple with rage. The courtiers
      smirked. Trippetta, pale as a corpse, advanced to the monarch’s
      seat, and, falling on her knees before him, implored him to spare her
      friend.
    </p>
<p>
      The tyrant regarded her, for some moments, in evident wonder at her
      audacity. He seemed quite at a loss what to do or say—how most
      becomingly to express his indignation. At last, without uttering a
      syllable, he pushed her violently from him, and threw the contents of the
      brimming goblet in her face.
    </p>
<p>
      The poor girl got up the best she could, and, not daring even to sigh,
      resumed her position at the foot of the table.
    </p>
<p>
      There was a dead silence for about half a minute, during which the falling
      of a leaf, or of a feather, might have been heard. It was interrupted by a
      low, but harsh and protracted grating sound which seemed to come at once
      from every corner of the room.
    </p>
<p>
      “What—what—what are you making that noise for?”
      demanded the king, turning furiously to the dwarf.
    </p>
<p>
      The latter seemed to have recovered, in great measure, from his
      intoxication, and looking fixedly but quietly into the tyrant’s
      face, merely ejaculated:
    </p>
<p>
      “I—I? How could it have been me?”
    </p>
<p>
      “The sound appeared to come from without,” observed one of the
      courtiers. “I fancy it was the parrot at the window, whetting his
      bill upon his cage-wires.”
    </p>
<p>
      “True,” replied the monarch, as if much relieved by the
      suggestion; “but, on the honor of a knight, I could have sworn that
      it was the gritting of this vagabond’s teeth.”
    </p>
<p>
      Hereupon the dwarf laughed (the king was too confirmed a joker to object
      to any one’s laughing), and displayed a set of large, powerful, and
      very repulsive teeth. Moreover, he avowed his perfect willingness to
      swallow as much wine as desired. The monarch was pacified; and having
      drained another bumper with no very perceptible ill effect, Hop-Frog
      entered at once, and with spirit, into the plans for the masquerade.
    </p>
<p>
      “I cannot tell what was the association of idea,” observed he,
      very tranquilly, and as if he had never tasted wine in his life, “but
      just after your majesty, had struck the girl and thrown the wine in her
      face—just after your majesty had done this, and while the parrot was
      making that odd noise outside the window, there came into my mind a
      capital diversion—one of my own country frolics—often enacted
      among us, at our masquerades: but here it will be new altogether.
      Unfortunately, however, it requires a company of eight persons and-”
    </p>
<p>
      “Here we are!” cried the king, laughing at his acute discovery
      of the coincidence; “eight to a fraction—I and my seven
      ministers. Come! what is the diversion?”
    </p>
<p>
      “We call it,” replied the cripple, “the Eight Chained
      Ourang-Outangs, and it really is excellent sport if well enacted.”
    </p>
<p>
      “We will enact it,” remarked the king, drawing himself up, and
      lowering his eyelids.
    </p>
<p>
      “The beauty of the game,” continued Hop-Frog, “lies in
      the fright it occasions among the women.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Capital!” roared in chorus the monarch and his ministry.
    </p>
<p>
      “I will equip you as ourang-outangs,” proceeded the dwarf;
      “leave all that to me. The resemblance shall be so striking, that
      the company of masqueraders will take you for real beasts—and of
      course, they will be as much terrified as astonished.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Oh, this is exquisite!” exclaimed the king. “Hop-Frog!
      I will make a man of you.”
    </p>
<p>
      “The chains are for the purpose of increasing the confusion by their
      jangling. You are supposed to have escaped, en masse, from your keepers.
      Your majesty cannot conceive the effect produced, at a masquerade, by
      eight chained ourang-outangs, imagined to be real ones by most of the
      company; and rushing in with savage cries, among the crowd of delicately
      and gorgeously habited men and women. The contrast is inimitable!”
    </p>
<p>
      “It must be,” said the king: and the council arose hurriedly
      (as it was growing late), to put in execution the scheme of Hop-Frog.
    </p>
<p>
      His mode of equipping the party as ourang-outangs was very simple, but
      effective enough for his purposes. The animals in question had, at the
      epoch of my story, very rarely been seen in any part of the civilized
      world; and as the imitations made by the dwarf were sufficiently
      beast-like and more than sufficiently hideous, their truthfulness to
      nature was thus thought to be secured.
    </p>
<p>
      The king and his ministers were first encased in tight-fitting stockinet
      shirts and drawers. They were then saturated with tar. At this stage of
      the process, some one of the party suggested feathers; but the suggestion
      was at once overruled by the dwarf, who soon convinced the eight, by
      ocular demonstration, that the hair of such a brute as the ourang-outang
      was much more efficiently represented by flu. A thick coating of the
      latter was accordingly plastered upon the coating of tar. A long chain was
      now procured. First, it was passed about the waist of the king, and tied,
      then about another of the party, and also tied; then about all
      successively, in the same manner. When this chaining arrangement was
      complete, and the party stood as far apart from each other as possible,
      they formed a circle; and to make all things appear natural, Hop-Frog
      passed the residue of the chain in two diameters, at right angles, across
      the circle, after the fashion adopted, at the present day, by those who
      capture Chimpanzees, or other large apes, in Borneo.
    </p>
<p>
      The grand saloon in which the masquerade was to take place, was a circular
      room, very lofty, and receiving the light of the sun only through a single
      window at top. At night (the season for which the apartment was especially
      designed) it was illuminated principally by a large chandelier, depending
      by a chain from the centre of the sky-light, and lowered, or elevated, by
      means of a counter-balance as usual; but (in order not to look unsightly)
      this latter passed outside the cupola and over the roof.
    </p>
<p>
      The arrangements of the room had been left to Trippetta’s
      superintendence; but, in some particulars, it seems, she had been guided
      by the calmer judgment of her friend the dwarf. At his suggestion it was
      that, on this occasion, the chandelier was removed. Its waxen drippings
      (which, in weather so warm, it was quite impossible to prevent) would have
      been seriously detrimental to the rich dresses of the guests, who, on
      account of the crowded state of the saloon, could not all be expected to
      keep from out its centre; that is to say, from under the chandelier.
      Additional sconces were set in various parts of the hall, out of the war,
      and a flambeau, emitting sweet odor, was placed in the right hand of each
      of the Caryaides [Caryatides] that stood against the wall—some fifty
      or sixty altogether.
    </p>
<p>
      The eight ourang-outangs, taking Hop-Frog’s advice, waited patiently
      until midnight (when the room was thoroughly filled with masqueraders)
      before making their appearance. No sooner had the clock ceased striking,
      however, than they rushed, or rather rolled in, all together—for the
      impediments of their chains caused most of the party to fall, and all to
      stumble as they entered.
    </p>
<p>
      The excitement among the masqueraders was prodigious, and filled the heart
      of the king with glee. As had been anticipated, there were not a few of
      the guests who supposed the ferocious-looking creatures to be beasts of
      some kind in reality, if not precisely ourang-outangs. Many of the women
      swooned with affright; and had not the king taken the precaution to
      exclude all weapons from the saloon, his party might soon have expiated
      their frolic in their blood. As it was, a general rush was made for the
      doors; but the king had ordered them to be locked immediately upon his
      entrance; and, at the dwarf’s suggestion, the keys had been
      deposited with him.
    </p>
<p>
      While the tumult was at its height, and each masquerader attentive only to
      his own safety (for, in fact, there was much real danger from the pressure
      of the excited crowd), the chain by which the chandelier ordinarily hung,
      and which had been drawn up on its removal, might have been seen very
      gradually to descend, until its hooked extremity came within three feet of
      the floor.
    </p>
<p>
      Soon after this, the king and his seven friends having reeled about the
      hall in all directions, found themselves, at length, in its centre, and,
      of course, in immediate contact with the chain. While they were thus
      situated, the dwarf, who had followed noiselessly at their heels, inciting
      them to keep up the commotion, took hold of their own chain at the
      intersection of the two portions which crossed the circle diametrically
      and at right angles. Here, with the rapidity of thought, he inserted the
      hook from which the chandelier had been wont to depend; and, in an
      instant, by some unseen agency, the chandelier-chain was drawn so far
      upward as to take the hook out of reach, and, as an inevitable
      consequence, to drag the ourang-outangs together in close connection, and
      face to face.
    </p>
<p>
      The masqueraders, by this time, had recovered, in some measure, from their
      alarm; and, beginning to regard the whole matter as a well-contrived
      pleasantry, set up a loud shout of laughter at the predicament of the
      apes.
    </p>
<p>
      “Leave them to me!” now screamed Hop-Frog, his shrill voice
      making itself easily heard through all the din. “Leave them to me. I
      fancy I know them. If I can only get a good look at them, I can soon tell
      who they are.”
    </p>
<p>
      Here, scrambling over the heads of the crowd, he managed to get to the
      wall; when, seizing a flambeau from one of the Caryatides, he returned, as
      he went, to the centre of the room-leaping, with the agility of a monkey,
      upon the kings head, and thence clambered a few feet up the chain; holding
      down the torch to examine the group of ourang-outangs, and still
      screaming: “I shall soon find out who they are!”
    </p>
<p>
      And now, while the whole assembly (the apes included) were convulsed with
      laughter, the jester suddenly uttered a shrill whistle; when the chain
      flew violently up for about thirty feet—dragging with it the
      dismayed and struggling ourang-outangs, and leaving them suspended in
      mid-air between the sky-light and the floor. Hop-Frog, clinging to the
      chain as it rose, still maintained his relative position in respect to the
      eight maskers, and still (as if nothing were the matter) continued to
      thrust his torch down toward them, as though endeavoring to discover who
      they were.
    </p>
<p>
      So thoroughly astonished was the whole company at this ascent, that a dead
      silence, of about a minute’s duration, ensued. It was broken by just
      such a low, harsh, grating sound, as had before attracted the attention of
      the king and his councillors when the former threw the wine in the face of
      Trippetta. But, on the present occasion, there could be no question as to
      whence the sound issued. It came from the fang—like teeth of the
      dwarf, who ground them and gnashed them as he foamed at the mouth, and
      glared, with an expression of maniacal rage, into the upturned
      countenances of the king and his seven companions.
    </p>
<p>
      “Ah, ha!” said at length the infuriated jester. “Ah, ha!
      I begin to see who these people are now!” Here, pretending to
      scrutinize the king more closely, he held the flambeau to the flaxen coat
      which enveloped him, and which instantly burst into a sheet of vivid
      flame. In less than half a minute the whole eight ourang-outangs were
      blazing fiercely, amid the shrieks of the multitude who gazed at them from
      below, horror-stricken, and without the power to render them the slightest
      assistance.
    </p>
<p>
      At length the flames, suddenly increasing in virulence, forced the jester
      to climb higher up the chain, to be out of their reach; and, as he made
      this movement, the crowd again sank, for a brief instant, into silence.
      The dwarf seized his opportunity, and once more spoke:
    </p>
<p>
      “I now see distinctly.” he said, “what manner of people
      these maskers are. They are a great king and his seven privy-councillors,—a
      king who does not scruple to strike a defenceless girl and his seven
      councillors who abet him in the outrage. As for myself, I am simply
      Hop-Frog, the jester—and this is my last jest.”
    </p>
<p>
      Owing to the high combustibility of both the flax and the tar to which it
      adhered, the dwarf had scarcely made an end of his brief speech before the
      work of vengeance was complete. The eight corpses swung in their chains, a
      fetid, blackened, hideous, and indistinguishable mass. The cripple hurled
      his torch at them, clambered leisurely to the ceiling, and disappeared
      through the sky-light.
    </p>
<p>
      It is supposed that Trippetta, stationed on the roof of the saloon, had
      been the accomplice of her friend in his fiery revenge, and that,
      together, they effected their escape to their own country: for neither was
      seen again.
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0005">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      THE MAN OF THE CROWD.
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     Ce grand malheur, de ne pouvoir ?tre seul.

              <i>La Bruy?re</i>.
</pre>
<p>
      IT was well said of a certain German book that “<i>er lasst sich
      nicht lesen</i>”—it does not permit itself to be read. There
      are some secrets which do not permit themselves to be told. Men die
      nightly in their beds, wringing the hands of ghostly confessors and
      looking them piteously in the eyes—die with despair of heart and
      convulsion of throat, on account of the hideousness of mysteries which
      will not suffer themselves to be revealed. Now and then, alas, the
      conscience of man takes up a burthen so heavy in horror that it can be
      thrown down only into the grave. And thus the essence of all crime is
      undivulged.
    </p>
<p>
      Not long ago, about the closing in of an evening in autumn, I sat at the
      large bow window of the D——- Coffee-House in London. For some
      months I had been ill in health, but was now convalescent, and, with
      returning strength, found myself in one of those happy moods which are so
      precisely the converse of ennui—moods of the keenest appetency, when
      the film from the mental vision departs—the [Greek phrase]—and
      the intellect, electrified, surpasses as greatly its every-day condition,
      as does the vivid yet candid reason of Leibnitz, the mad and flimsy
      rhetoric of Gorgias. Merely to breathe was enjoyment; and I derived
      positive pleasure even from many of the legitimate sources of pain. I felt
      a calm but inquisitive interest in every thing. With a cigar in my mouth
      and a newspaper in my lap, I had been amusing myself for the greater part
      of the afternoon, now in poring over advertisements, now in observing the
      promiscuous company in the room, and now in peering through the smoky
      panes into the street.
    </p>
<p>
      This latter is one of the principal thoroughfares of the city, and had
      been very much crowded during the whole day. But, as the darkness came on,
      the throng momently increased; and, by the time the lamps were well
      lighted, two dense and continuous tides of population were rushing past
      the door. At this particular period of the evening I had never before been
      in a similar situation, and the tumultuous sea of human heads filled me,
      therefore, with a delicious novelty of emotion. I gave up, at length, all
      care of things within the hotel, and became absorbed in contemplation of
      the scene without.
    </p>
<p>
      At first my observations took an abstract and generalizing turn. I looked
      at the passengers in masses, and thought of them in their aggregate
      relations. Soon, however, I descended to details, and regarded with minute
      interest the innumerable varieties of figure, dress, air, gait, visage,
      and expression of countenance.
    </p>
<p>
      By far the greater number of those who went by had a satisfied
      business-like demeanor, and seemed to be thinking only of making their way
      through the press. Their brows were knit, and their eyes rolled quickly;
      when pushed against by fellow-wayfarers they evinced no symptom of
      impatience, but adjusted their clothes and hurried on. Others, still a
      numerous class, were restless in their movements, had flushed faces, and
      talked and gesticulated to themselves, as if feeling in solitude on
      account of the very denseness of the company around. When impeded in their
      progress, these people suddenly ceased muttering, but re-doubled their
      gesticulations, and awaited, with an absent and overdone smile upon the
      lips, the course of the persons impeding them. If jostled, they bowed
      profusely to the jostlers, and appeared overwhelmed with confusion.—There
      was nothing very distinctive about these two large classes beyond what I
      have noted. Their habiliments belonged to that order which is pointedly
      termed the decent. They were undoubtedly noblemen, merchants, attorneys,
      tradesmen, stock-jobbers—the Eupatrids and the common-places of
      society—men of leisure and men actively engaged in affairs of their
      own—conducting business upon their own responsibility. They did not
      greatly excite my attention.
    </p>
<p>
      The tribe of clerks was an obvious one and here I discerned two remarkable
      divisions. There were the junior clerks of flash houses—young
      gentlemen with tight coats, bright boots, well-oiled hair, and
      supercilious lips. Setting aside a certain dapperness of carriage, which
      may be termed deskism for want of a better word, the manner of these
      persons seemed to me an exact fac-simile of what had been the perfection
      of bon ton about twelve or eighteen months before. They wore the cast-off
      graces of the gentry;—and this, I believe, involves the best
      definition of the class.
    </p>
<p>
      The division of the upper clerks of staunch firms, or of the “steady
      old fellows,” it was not possible to mistake. These were known by
      their coats and pantaloons of black or brown, made to sit comfortably,
      with white cravats and waistcoats, broad solid-looking shoes, and thick
      hose or gaiters.—They had all slightly bald heads, from which the
      right ears, long used to pen-holding, had an odd habit of standing off on
      end. I observed that they always removed or settled their hats with both
      hands, and wore watches, with short gold chains of a substantial and
      ancient pattern. Theirs was the affectation of respectability;—if
      indeed there be an affectation so honorable.
    </p>
<p>
      There were many individuals of dashing appearance, whom I easily
      understood as belonging to the race of swell pick-pockets with which all
      great cities are infested. I watched these gentry with much
      inquisitiveness, and found it difficult to imagine how they should ever be
      mistaken for gentlemen by gentlemen themselves. Their voluminousness of
      wristband, with an air of excessive frankness, should betray them at once.
    </p>
<p>
      The gamblers, of whom I descried not a few, were still more easily
      recognisable. They wore every variety of dress, from that of the desperate
      thimble-rig bully, with velvet waistcoat, fancy neckerchief, gilt chains,
      and filagreed buttons, to that of the scrupulously inornate clergyman,
      than which nothing could be less liable to suspicion. Still all were
      distinguished by a certain sodden swarthiness of complexion, a filmy
      dimness of eye, and pallor and compression of lip. There were two other
      traits, moreover, by which I could always detect them;—a guarded
      lowness of tone in conversation, and a more than ordinary extension of the
      thumb in a direction at right angles with the fingers.—Very often,
      in company with these sharpers, I observed an order of men somewhat
      different in habits, but still birds of a kindred feather. They may be
      defined as the gentlemen who live by their wits. They seem to prey upon
      the public in two battalions—that of the dandies and that of the
      military men. Of the first grade the leading features are long locks and
      smiles; of the second frogged coats and frowns.
    </p>
<p>
      Descending in the scale of what is termed gentility, I found darker and
      deeper themes for speculation. I saw Jew pedlars, with hawk eyes flashing
      from countenances whose every other feature wore only an expression of
      abject humility; sturdy professional street beggars scowling upon
      mendicants of a better stamp, whom despair alone had driven forth into the
      night for charity; feeble and ghastly invalids, upon whom death had placed
      a sure hand, and who sidled and tottered through the mob, looking every
      one beseechingly in the face, as if in search of some chance consolation,
      some lost hope; modest young girls returning from long and late labor to a
      cheerless home, and shrinking more tearfully than indignantly from the
      glances of ruffians, whose direct contact, even, could not be avoided;
      women of the town of all kinds and of all ages—the unequivocal
      beauty in the prime of her womanhood, putting one in mind of the statue in
      Lucian, with the surface of Parian marble, and the interior filled with
      filth—the loathsome and utterly lost leper in rags—the
      wrinkled, bejewelled and paint-begrimed beldame, making a last effort at
      youth—the mere child of immature form, yet, from long association,
      an adept in the dreadful coquetries of her trade, and burning with a rabid
      ambition to be ranked the equal of her elders in vice; drunkards
      innumerable and indescribable—some in shreds and patches, reeling,
      inarticulate, with bruised visage and lack-lustre eyes—some in whole
      although filthy garments, with a slightly unsteady swagger, thick sensual
      lips, and hearty-looking rubicund faces—others clothed in materials
      which had once been good, and which even now were scrupulously well
      brushed—men who walked with a more than naturally firm and springy
      step, but whose countenances were fearfully pale, whose eyes hideously
      wild and red, and who clutched with quivering fingers, as they strode
      through the crowd, at every object which came within their reach; beside
      these, pie-men, porters, coal—heavers, sweeps; organ-grinders,
      monkey-exhibiters and ballad mongers, those who vended with those who
      sang; ragged artizans and exhausted laborers of every description, and all
      full of a noisy and inordinate vivacity which jarred discordantly upon the
      ear, and gave an aching sensation to the eye.
    </p>
<p>
      As the night deepened, so deepened to me the interest of the scene; for
      not only did the general character of the crowd materially alter (its
      gentler features retiring in the gradual withdrawal of the more orderly
      portion of the people, and its harsher ones coming out into bolder relief,
      as the late hour brought forth every species of infamy from its den,) but
      the rays of the gas-lamps, feeble at first in their struggle with the
      dying day, had now at length gained ascendancy, and threw over every thing
      a fitful and garish lustre. All was dark yet splendid—as that ebony
      to which has been likened the style of Tertullian.
    </p>
<p>
      The wild effects of the light enchained me to an examination of individual
      faces; and although the rapidity with which the world of light flitted
      before the window, prevented me from casting more than a glance upon each
      visage, still it seemed that, in my then peculiar mental state, I could
      frequently read, even in that brief interval of a glance, the history of
      long years.
    </p>
<p>
      With my brow to the glass, I was thus occupied in scrutinizing the mob,
      when suddenly there came into view a countenance (that of a decrepid old
      man, some sixty-five or seventy years of age,)—a countenance which
      at once arrested and absorbed my whole attention, on account of the
      absolute idiosyncrasy of its expression. Any thing even remotely
      resembling that expression I had never seen before. I well remember that
      my first thought, upon beholding it, was that Retzch, had he viewed it,
      would have greatly preferred it to his own pictural incarnations of the
      fiend. As I endeavored, during the brief minute of my original survey, to
      form some analysis of the meaning conveyed, there arose confusedly and
      paradoxically within my mind, the ideas of vast mental power, of caution,
      of penuriousness, of avarice, of coolness, of malice, of blood
      thirstiness, of triumph, of merriment, of excessive terror, of intense—of
      supreme despair. I felt singularly aroused, startled, fascinated. “How
      wild a history,” I said to myself, “is written within that
      bosom!” Then came a craving desire to keep the man in view—to
      know more of him. Hurriedly putting on an overcoat, and seizing my hat and
      cane, I made my way into the street, and pushed through the crowd in the
      direction which I had seen him take; for he had already disappeared. With
      some little difficulty I at length came within sight of him, approached,
      and followed him closely, yet cautiously, so as not to attract his
      attention.
    </p>
<p>
      I had now a good opportunity of examining his person. He was short in
      stature, very thin, and apparently very feeble. His clothes, generally,
      were filthy and ragged; but as he came, now and then, within the strong
      glare of a lamp, I perceived that his linen, although dirty, was of
      beautiful texture; and my vision deceived me, or, through a rent in a
      closely-buttoned and evidently second-handed roquelaire which enveloped
      him, I caught a glimpse both of a diamond and of a dagger. These
      observations heightened my curiosity, and I resolved to follow the
      stranger whithersoever he should go.
    </p>
<p>
      It was now fully night-fall, and a thick humid fog hung over the city,
      soon ending in a settled and heavy rain. This change of weather had an odd
      effect upon the crowd, the whole of which was at once put into new
      commotion, and overshadowed by a world of umbrellas. The waver, the
      jostle, and the hum increased in a tenfold degree. For my own part I did
      not much regard the rain—the lurking of an old fever in my system
      rendering the moisture somewhat too dangerously pleasant. Tying a
      handkerchief about my mouth, I kept on. For half an hour the old man held
      his way with difficulty along the great thoroughfare; and I here walked
      close at his elbow through fear of losing sight of him. Never once turning
      his head to look back, he did not observe me. By and bye he passed into a
      cross street, which, although densely filled with people, was not quite so
      much thronged as the main one he had quitted. Here a change in his
      demeanor became evident. He walked more slowly and with less object than
      before—more hesitatingly. He crossed and re-crossed the way
      repeatedly without apparent aim; and the press was still so thick that, at
      every such movement, I was obliged to follow him closely. The street was a
      narrow and long one, and his course lay within it for nearly an hour,
      during which the passengers had gradually diminished to about that number
      which is ordinarily seen at noon in Broadway near the Park—so vast a
      difference is there between a London populace and that of the most
      frequented American city. A second turn brought us into a square,
      brilliantly lighted, and overflowing with life. The old manner of the
      stranger re-appeared. His chin fell upon his breast, while his eyes rolled
      wildly from under his knit brows, in every direction, upon those who
      hemmed him in. He urged his way steadily and perseveringly. I was
      surprised, however, to find, upon his having made the circuit of the
      square, that he turned and retraced his steps. Still more was I astonished
      to see him repeat the same walk several times—once nearly detecting
      me as he came round with a sudden movement.
    </p>
<p>
      In this exercise he spent another hour, at the end of which we met with
      far less interruption from passengers than at first. The rain fell fast;
      the air grew cool; and the people were retiring to their homes. With a
      gesture of impatience, the wanderer passed into a bye-street comparatively
      deserted. Down this, some quarter of a mile long, he rushed with an
      activity I could not have dreamed of seeing in one so aged, and which put
      me to much trouble in pursuit. A few minutes brought us to a large and
      busy bazaar, with the localities of which the stranger appeared well
      acquainted, and where his original demeanor again became apparent, as he
      forced his way to and fro, without aim, among the host of buyers and
      sellers.
    </p>
<p>
      During the hour and a half, or thereabouts, which we passed in this place,
      it required much caution on my part to keep him within reach without
      attracting his observation. Luckily I wore a pair of caoutchouc
      over-shoes, and could move about in perfect silence. At no moment did he
      see that I watched him. He entered shop after shop, priced nothing, spoke
      no word, and looked at all objects with a wild and vacant stare. I was now
      utterly amazed at his behavior, and firmly resolved that we should not
      part until I had satisfied myself in some measure respecting him.
    </p>
<p>
      A loud-toned clock struck eleven, and the company were fast deserting the
      bazaar. A shop-keeper, in putting up a shutter, jostled the old man, and
      at the instant I saw a strong shudder come over his frame. He hurried into
      the street, looked anxiously around him for an instant, and then ran with
      incredible swiftness through many crooked and people-less lanes, until we
      emerged once more upon the great thoroughfare whence we had started—the
      street of the D—— Hotel. It no longer wore, however, the same
      aspect. It was still brilliant with gas; but the rain fell fiercely, and
      there were few persons to be seen. The stranger grew pale. He walked
      moodily some paces up the once populous avenue, then, with a heavy sigh,
      turned in the direction of the river, and, plunging through a great
      variety of devious ways, came out, at length, in view of one of the
      principal theatres. It was about being closed, and the audience were
      thronging from the doors. I saw the old man gasp as if for breath while he
      threw himself amid the crowd; but I thought that the intense agony of his
      countenance had, in some measure, abated. His head again fell upon his
      breast; he appeared as I had seen him at first. I observed that he now
      took the course in which had gone the greater number of the audience—but,
      upon the whole, I was at a loss to comprehend the waywardness of his
      actions.
    </p>
<p>
      As he proceeded, the company grew more scattered, and his old uneasiness
      and vacillation were resumed. For some time he followed closely a party of
      some ten or twelve roisterers; but from this number one by one dropped
      off, until three only remained together, in a narrow and gloomy lane
      little frequented. The stranger paused, and, for a moment, seemed lost in
      thought; then, with every mark of agitation, pursued rapidly a route which
      brought us to the verge of the city, amid regions very different from
      those we had hitherto traversed. It was the most noisome quarter of
      London, where every thing wore the worst impress of the most deplorable
      poverty, and of the most desperate crime. By the dim light of an
      accidental lamp, tall, antique, worm-eaten, wooden tenements were seen
      tottering to their fall, in directions so many and capricious that scarce
      the semblance of a passage was discernible between them. The paving-stones
      lay at random, displaced from their beds by the rankly-growing grass.
      Horrible filth festered in the dammed-up gutters. The whole atmosphere
      teemed with desolation. Yet, as we proceeded, the sounds of human life
      revived by sure degrees, and at length large bands of the most abandoned
      of a London populace were seen reeling to and fro. The spirits of the old
      man again flickered up, as a lamp which is near its death hour. Once more
      he strode onward with elastic tread. Suddenly a corner was turned, a blaze
      of light burst upon our sight, and we stood before one of the huge
      suburban temples of Intemperance—one of the palaces of the fiend,
      Gin.
    </p>
<p>
      It was now nearly day-break; but a number of wretched inebriates still
      pressed in and out of the flaunting entrance. With a half shriek of joy
      the old man forced a passage within, resumed at once his original bearing,
      and stalked backward and forward, without apparent object, among the
      throng. He had not been thus long occupied, however, before a rush to the
      doors gave token that the host was closing them for the night. It was
      something even more intense than despair that I then observed upon the
      countenance of the singular being whom I had watched so pertinaciously.
      Yet he did not hesitate in his career, but, with a mad energy, retraced
      his steps at once, to the heart of the mighty London. Long and swiftly he
      fled, while I followed him in the wildest amazement, resolute not to
      abandon a scrutiny in which I now felt an interest all-absorbing. The sun
      arose while we proceeded, and, when we had once again reached that most
      thronged mart of the populous town, the street of the D——-
      Hotel, it presented an appearance of human bustle and activity scarcely
      inferior to what I had seen on the evening before. And here, long, amid
      the momently increasing confusion, did I persist in my pursuit of the
      stranger. But, as usual, he walked to and fro, and during the day did not
      pass from out the turmoil of that street. And, as the shades of the second
      evening came on, I grew wearied unto death, and, stopping fully in front
      of the wanderer, gazed at him steadfastly in the face. He noticed me not,
      but resumed his solemn walk, while I, ceasing to follow, remained absorbed
      in contemplation. “This old man,” I said at length, “is
      the type and the genius of deep crime. He refuses to be alone. [page 228:]
      He is the man of the crowd. It will be in vain to follow; for I shall
      learn no more of him, nor of his deeds. The worst heart of the world is a
      grosser book than the ‘Hortulus Anim?,’ {*1} and perhaps it is
      but one of the great mercies of God that ‘er lasst sich nicht lesen.’”
    </p>
<p>
      {*1} The “<i>Hortulus Anim? cum Oratiunculis Aliquibus Superadditis</i>”
      of Gr?nninger
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0006">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      NEVER BET THE DEVIL YOUR HEAD
    </h2>
<h3>
      A Tale With a Moral.
    </h3>
<p>
      “<i>CON tal que las costumbres de un autor</i>,” says Don
      Thomas de las Torres, in the preface to his “Amatory Poems” <i>“sean
      puras y castas, importo muy poco que no sean igualmente severas sus obras”</i>—meaning,
      in plain English, that, provided the morals of an author are pure
      personally, it signifies nothing what are the morals of his books. We
      presume that Don Thomas is now in Purgatory for the assertion. It would be
      a clever thing, too, in the way of poetical justice, to keep him there
      until his “Amatory Poems” get out of print, or are laid
      definitely upon the shelf through lack of readers. Every fiction should
      have a moral; and, what is more to the purpose, the critics have
      discovered that every fiction has. Philip Melanchthon, some time ago,
      wrote a commentary upon the “Batrachomyomachia,” and proved
      that the poet’s object was to excite a distaste for sedition. Pierre
      la Seine, going a step farther, shows that the intention was to recommend
      to young men temperance in eating and drinking. Just so, too, Jacobus Hugo
      has satisfied himself that, by Euenis, Homer meant to insinuate John
      Calvin; by Antinous, Martin Luther; by the Lotophagi, Protestants in
      general; and, by the Harpies, the Dutch. Our more modern Scholiasts are
      equally acute. These fellows demonstrate a hidden meaning in “The
      Antediluvians,” a parable in Powhatan, “new views in Cock
      Robin,” and transcendentalism in “Hop O’ My Thumb.”
      In short, it has been shown that no man can sit down to write without a
      very profound design. Thus to authors in general much trouble is spared. A
      novelist, for example, need have no care of his moral. It is there—that
      is to say, it is somewhere—and the moral and the critics can take
      care of themselves. When the proper time arrives, all that the gentleman
      intended, and all that he did not intend, will be brought to light, in the
      “Dial,” or the “Down-Easter,” together with all
      that he ought to have intended, and the rest that he clearly meant to
      intend:—so that it will all come very straight in the end.
    </p>
<p>
      There is no just ground, therefore, for the charge brought against me by
      certain ignoramuses—that I have never written a moral tale, or, in
      more precise words, a tale with a moral. They are not the critics
      predestined to bring me out, and develop my morals:—that is the
      secret. By and by the “North American Quarterly Humdrum” will
      make them ashamed of their stupidity. In the meantime, by way of staying
      execution—by way of mitigating the accusations against me—I
      offer the sad history appended,—a history about whose obvious moral
      there can be no question whatever, since he who runs may read it in the
      large capitals which form the title of the tale. I should have credit for
      this arrangement—a far wiser one than that of La Fontaine and
      others, who reserve the impression to be conveyed until the last moment,
      and thus sneak it in at the fag end of their fables.
    </p>
<p>
      Defuncti injuria ne afficiantur was a law of the twelve tables, and De
      mortuis nil nisi bonum is an excellent injunction—even if the dead
      in question be nothing but dead small beer. It is not my design,
      therefore, to vituperate my deceased friend, Toby Dammit. He was a sad
      dog, it is true, and a dog’s death it was that he died; but he
      himself was not to blame for his vices. They grew out of a personal defect
      in his mother. She did her best in the way of flogging him while an infant—for
      duties to her well—regulated mind were always pleasures, and babies,
      like tough steaks, or the modern Greek olive trees, are invariably the
      better for beating—but, poor woman! she had the misfortune to be
      left-handed, and a child flogged left-handedly had better be left
      unflogged. The world revolves from right to left. It will not do to whip a
      baby from left to right. If each blow in the proper direction drives an
      evil propensity out, it follows that every thump in an opposite one knocks
      its quota of wickedness in. I was often present at Toby’s
      chastisements, and, even by the way in which he kicked, I could perceive
      that he was getting worse and worse every day. At last I saw, through the
      tears in my eyes, that there was no hope of the villain at all, and one
      day when he had been cuffed until he grew so black in the face that one
      might have mistaken him for a little African, and no effect had been
      produced beyond that of making him wriggle himself into a fit, I could
      stand it no longer, but went down upon my knees forthwith, and, uplifting
      my voice, made prophecy of his ruin.
    </p>
<p>
      The fact is that his precocity in vice was awful. At five months of age he
      used to get into such passions that he was unable to articulate. At six
      months, I caught him gnawing a pack of cards. At seven months he was in
      the constant habit of catching and kissing the female babies. At eight
      months he peremptorily refused to put his signature to the Temperance
      pledge. Thus he went on increasing in iniquity, month after month, until,
      at the close of the first year, he not only insisted upon wearing
      moustaches, but had contracted a propensity for cursing and swearing, and
      for backing his assertions by bets.
    </p>
<p>
      Through this latter most ungentlemanly practice, the ruin which I had
      predicted to Toby Dammit overtook him at last. The fashion had “grown
      with his growth and strengthened with his strength,” so that, when
      he came to be a man, he could scarcely utter a sentence without
      interlarding it with a proposition to gamble. Not that he actually laid
      wagers—no. I will do my friend the justice to say that he would as
      soon have laid eggs. With him the thing was a mere formula—nothing
      more. His expressions on this head had no meaning attached to them
      whatever. They were simple if not altogether innocent expletives—imaginative
      phrases wherewith to round off a sentence. When he said “I’ll
      bet you so and so,” nobody ever thought of taking him up; but still
      I could not help thinking it my duty to put him down. The habit was an
      immoral one, and so I told him. It was a vulgar one—this I begged
      him to believe. It was discountenanced by society—here I said
      nothing but the truth. It was forbidden by act of Congress—here I
      had not the slightest intention of telling a lie. I remonstrated—but
      to no purpose. I demonstrated—in vain. I entreated—he smiled.
      I implored—he laughed. I preached—he sneered. I threatened—he
      swore. I kicked him—he called for the police. I pulled his nose—he
      blew it, and offered to bet the Devil his head that I would not venture to
      try that experiment again.
    </p>
<p>
      Poverty was another vice which the peculiar physical deficiency of Dammit’s
      mother had entailed upon her son. He was detestably poor, and this was the
      reason, no doubt, that his expletive expressions about betting, seldom
      took a pecuniary turn. I will not be bound to say that I ever heard him
      make use of such a figure of speech as “I’ll bet you a dollar.”
      It was usually “I’ll bet you what you please,” or
      “I’ll bet you what you dare,” or “I’ll bet
      you a trifle,” or else, more significantly still, “I’ll
      bet the Devil my head.”
    </p>
<p>
      This latter form seemed to please him best;—perhaps because it
      involved the least risk; for Dammit had become excessively parsimonious.
      Had any one taken him up, his head was small, and thus his loss would have
      been small too. But these are my own reflections and I am by no means sure
      that I am right in attributing them to him. At all events the phrase in
      question grew daily in favor, notwithstanding the gross impropriety of a
      man betting his brains like bank-notes:—but this was a point which
      my friend’s perversity of disposition would not permit him to
      comprehend. In the end, he abandoned all other forms of wager, and gave
      himself up to “I’ll bet the Devil my head,” with a
      pertinacity and exclusiveness of devotion that displeased not less than it
      surprised me. I am always displeased by circumstances for which I cannot
      account. Mysteries force a man to think, and so injure his health. The
      truth is, there was something in the air with which Mr. Dammit was wont to
      give utterance to his offensive expression—something in his manner
      of enunciation—which at first interested, and afterwards made me
      very uneasy—something which, for want of a more definite term at
      present, I must be permitted to call queer; but which Mr. Coleridge would
      have called mystical, Mr. Kant pantheistical, Mr. Carlyle twistical, and
      Mr. Emerson hyperquizzitistical. I began not to like it at all. Mr.
      Dammits soul was in a perilous state. I resolved to bring all my eloquence
      into play to save it. I vowed to serve him as St. Patrick, in the Irish
      chronicle, is said to have served the toad,—that is to say, “awaken
      him to a sense of his situation.” I addressed myself to the task
      forthwith. Once more I betook myself to remonstrance. Again I collected my
      energies for a final attempt at expostulation.
    </p>
<p>
      When I had made an end of my lecture, Mr. Dammit indulged himself in some
      very equivocal behavior. For some moments he remained silent, merely
      looking me inquisitively in the face. But presently he threw his head to
      one side, and elevated his eyebrows to a great extent. Then he spread out
      the palms of his hands and shrugged up his shoulders. Then he winked with
      the right eye. Then he repeated the operation with the left. Then he shut
      them both up very tight. Then he opened them both so very wide that I
      became seriously alarmed for the consequences. Then, applying his thumb to
      his nose, he thought proper to make an indescribable movement with the
      rest of his fingers. Finally, setting his arms a-kimbo, he condescended to
      reply.
    </p>
<p>
      I can call to mind only the beads of his discourse. He would be obliged to
      me if I would hold my tongue. He wished none of my advice. He despised all
      my insinuations. He was old enough to take care of himself. Did I still
      think him baby Dammit? Did I mean to say any thing against his character?
      Did I intend to insult him? Was I a fool? Was my maternal parent aware, in
      a word, of my absence from the domiciliary residence? He would put this
      latter question to me as to a man of veracity, and he would bind himself
      to abide by my reply. Once more he would demand explicitly if my mother
      knew that I was out. My confusion, he said, betrayed me, and he would be
      willing to bet the Devil his head that she did not.
    </p>
<p>
      Mr. Dammit did not pause for my rejoinder. Turning upon his heel, he left
      my presence with undignified precipitation. It was well for him that he
      did so. My feelings had been wounded. Even my anger had been aroused. For
      once I would have taken him up upon his insulting wager. I would have won
      for the Arch-Enemy Mr. Dammit’s little head—for the fact is,
      my mamma was very well aware of my merely temporary absence from home.
    </p>
<p>
      But Khoda shefa mid?hed—Heaven gives relief—as the Mussulmans
      say when you tread upon their toes. It was in pursuance of my duty that I
      had been insulted, and I bore the insult like a man. It now seemed to me,
      however, that I had done all that could be required of me, in the case of
      this miserable individual, and I resolved to trouble him no longer with my
      counsel, but to leave him to his conscience and himself. But although I
      forebore to intrude with my advice, I could not bring myself to give up
      his society altogether. I even went so far as to humor some of his less
      reprehensible propensities; and there were times when I found myself
      lauding his wicked jokes, as epicures do mustard, with tears in my eyes:—so
      profoundly did it grieve me to hear his evil talk.
    </p>
<p>
      One fine day, having strolled out together, arm in arm, our route led us
      in the direction of a river. There was a bridge, and we resolved to cross
      it. It was roofed over, by way of protection from the weather, and the
      archway, having but few windows, was thus very uncomfortably dark. As we
      entered the passage, the contrast between the external glare and the
      interior gloom struck heavily upon my spirits. Not so upon those of the
      unhappy Dammit, who offered to bet the Devil his head that I was hipped.
      He seemed to be in an unusual good humor. He was excessively lively—so
      much so that I entertained I know not what of uneasy suspicion. It is not
      impossible that he was affected with the transcendentals. I am not well
      enough versed, however, in the diagnosis of this disease to speak with
      decision upon the point; and unhappily there were none of my friends of
      the “Dial” present. I suggest the idea, nevertheless, because
      of a certain species of austere Merry-Andrewism which seemed to beset my
      poor friend, and caused him to make quite a Tom-Fool of himself. Nothing
      would serve him but wriggling and skipping about under and over every
      thing that came in his way; now shouting out, and now lisping out, all
      manner of odd little and big words, yet preserving the gravest face in the
      world all the time. I really could not make up my mind whether to kick or
      to pity him. At length, having passed nearly across the bridge, we
      approached the termination of the footway, when our progress was impeded
      by a turnstile of some height. Through this I made my way quietly, pushing
      it around as usual. But this turn would not serve the turn of Mr. Dammit.
      He insisted upon leaping the stile, and said he could cut a pigeon-wing
      over it in the air. Now this, conscientiously speaking, I did not think he
      could do. The best pigeon-winger over all kinds of style was my friend Mr.
      Carlyle, and as I knew he could not do it, I would not believe that it
      could be done by Toby Dammit. I therefore told him, in so many words, that
      he was a braggadocio, and could not do what he said. For this I had reason
      to be sorry afterward;—for he straightway offered to bet the Devil
      his head that he could.
    </p>
<p>
      I was about to reply, notwithstanding my previous resolutions, with some
      remonstrance against his impiety, when I heard, close at my elbow, a
      slight cough, which sounded very much like the ejaculation “ahem!”
      I started, and looked about me in surprise. My glance at length fell into
      a nook of the frame—work of the bridge, and upon the figure of a
      little lame old gentleman of venerable aspect. Nothing could be more
      reverend than his whole appearance; for he not only had on a full suit of
      black, but his shirt was perfectly clean and the collar turned very neatly
      down over a white cravat, while his hair was parted in front like a girl’s.
      His hands were clasped pensively together over his stomach, and his two
      eyes were carefully rolled up into the top of his head.
    </p>
<p>
      Upon observing him more closely, I perceived that he wore a black silk
      apron over his small-clothes; and this was a thing which I thought very
      odd. Before I had time to make any remark, however, upon so singular a
      circumstance, he interrupted me with a second “ahem!”
    </p>
<p>
      To this observation I was not immediately prepared to reply. The fact is,
      remarks of this laconic nature are nearly unanswerable. I have known a
      Quarterly Review non-plussed by the word “Fudge!” I am not
      ashamed to say, therefore, that I turned to Mr. Dammit for assistance.
    </p>
<p>
      “Dammit,” said I, “what are you about? don’t you
      hear?—the gentleman says ‘ahem!’” I looked sternly
      at my friend while I thus addressed him; for, to say the truth, I felt
      particularly puzzled, and when a man is particularly puzzled he must knit
      his brows and look savage, or else he is pretty sure to look like a fool.
    </p>
<p>
      “Dammit,” observed I—although this sounded very much
      like an oath, than which nothing was further from my thoughts—“Dammit,”
      I suggested—“the gentleman says ‘ahem!’”
    </p>
<p>
      I do not attempt to defend my remark on the score of profundity; I did not
      think it profound myself; but I have noticed that the effect of our
      speeches is not always proportionate with their importance in our own
      eyes; and if I had shot Mr. D. through and through with a Paixhan bomb, or
      knocked him in the head with the “Poets and Poetry of America,”
      he could hardly have been more discomfited than when I addressed him with
      those simple words: “Dammit, what are you about?—don’t
      you hear?—the gentleman says ‘ahem!’”
    </p>
<p>
      “You don’t say so?” gasped he at length, after turning
      more colors than a pirate runs up, one after the other, when chased by a
      man-of-war. “Are you quite sure he said that? Well, at all events I
      am in for it now, and may as well put a bold face upon the matter. Here
      goes, then—ahem!”
    </p>
<p>
      At this the little old gentleman seemed pleased—God only knows why.
      He left his station at the nook of the bridge, limped forward with a
      gracious air, took Dammit by the hand and shook it cordially, looking all
      the while straight up in his face with an air of the most unadulterated
      benignity which it is possible for the mind of man to imagine.
    </p>
<p>
      “I am quite sure you will win it, Dammit,” said he, with the
      frankest of all smiles, “but we are obliged to have a trial, you
      know, for the sake of mere form.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Ahem!” replied my friend, taking off his coat, with a deep
      sigh, tying a pocket-handkerchief around his waist, and producing an
      unaccountable alteration in his countenance by twisting up his eyes and
      bringing down the corners of his mouth—“ahem!” And
      “ahem!” said he again, after a pause; and not another word
      more than “ahem!” did I ever know him to say after that.
      “Aha!” thought I, without expressing myself aloud—“this
      is quite a remarkable silence on the part of Toby Dammit, and is no doubt
      a consequence of his verbosity upon a previous occasion. One extreme
      induces another. I wonder if he has forgotten the many unanswerable
      questions which he propounded to me so fluently on the day when I gave him
      my last lecture? At all events, he is cured of the transcendentals.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Ahem!” here replied Toby, just as if he had been reading my
      thoughts, and looking like a very old sheep in a revery.
    </p>
<p>
      The old gentleman now took him by the arm, and led him more into the shade
      of the bridge—a few paces back from the turnstile. “My good
      fellow,” said he, “I make it a point of conscience to allow
      you this much run. Wait here, till I take my place by the stile, so that I
      may see whether you go over it handsomely, and transcendentally, and don’t
      omit any flourishes of the pigeon-wing. A mere form, you know. I will say
      ‘one, two, three, and away.’ Mind you, start at the word
      ‘away’” Here he took his position by the stile, paused a
      moment as if in profound reflection, then looked up and, I thought, smiled
      very slightly, then tightened the strings of his apron, then took a long
      look at Dammit, and finally gave the word as agreed upon-
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
            <i>One—two—three—and—away!</i>
</pre>
<p>
      Punctually at the word “away,” my poor friend set off in a
      strong gallop. The stile was not very high, like Mr. Lord’s—nor
      yet very low, like that of Mr. Lord’s reviewers, but upon the whole
      I made sure that he would clear it. And then what if he did not?—ah,
      that was the question—what if he did not? “What right,”
      said I, “had the old gentleman to make any other gentleman jump? The
      little old dot-and-carry-one! who is he? If he asks me to jump, I won’t
      do it, that’s flat, and I don’t care who the devil he is.”
      The bridge, as I say, was arched and covered in, in a very ridiculous
      manner, and there was a most uncomfortable echo about it at all times—an
      echo which I never before so particularly observed as when I uttered the
      four last words of my remark.
    </p>
<p>
      But what I said, or what I thought, or what I heard, occupied only an
      instant. In less than five seconds from his starting, my poor Toby had
      taken the leap. I saw him run nimbly, and spring grandly from the floor of
      the bridge, cutting the most awful flourishes with his legs as he went up.
      I saw him high in the air, pigeon-winging it to admiration just over the
      top of the stile; and of course I thought it an unusually singular thing
      that he did not continue to go over. But the whole leap was the affair of
      a moment, and, before I had a chance to make any profound reflections,
      down came Mr. Dammit on the flat of his back, on the same side of the
      stile from which he had started. At the same instant I saw the old
      gentleman limping off at the top of his speed, having caught and wrapt up
      in his apron something that fell heavily into it from the darkness of the
      arch just over the turnstile. At all this I was much astonished; but I had
      no leisure to think, for Dammit lay particularly still, and I concluded
      that his feelings had been hurt, and that he stood in need of my
      assistance. I hurried up to him and found that he had received what might
      be termed a serious injury. The truth is, he had been deprived of his
      head, which after a close search I could not find anywhere; so I
      determined to take him home and send for the homoeopathists. In the
      meantime a thought struck me, and I threw open an adjacent window of the
      bridge, when the sad truth flashed upon me at once. About five feet just
      above the top of the turnstile, and crossing the arch of the foot-path so
      as to constitute a brace, there extended a flat iron bar, lying with its
      breadth horizontally, and forming one of a series that served to
      strengthen the structure throughout its extent. With the edge of this
      brace it appeared evident that the neck of my unfortunate friend had come
      precisely in contact.
    </p>
<p>
      He did not long survive his terrible loss. The homoeopathists did not give
      him little enough physic, and what little they did give him he hesitated
      to take. So in the end he grew worse, and at length died, a lesson to all
      riotous livers. I bedewed his grave with my tears, worked a bar sinister
      on his family escutcheon, and, for the general expenses of his funeral,
      sent in my very moderate bill to the transcendentalists. The scoundrels
      refused to pay it, so I had Mr. Dammit dug up at once, and sold him for
      dog’s meat.
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0007">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      THOU ART THE MAN
    </h2>
<p>
      I will now play the Oedipus to the Rattleborough enigma. I will expound to
      you—as I alone can—the secret of the enginery that effected
      the Rattleborough miracle—the one, the true, the admitted, the
      undisputed, the indisputable miracle, which put a definite end to
      infidelity among the Rattleburghers and converted to the orthodoxy of the
      grandames all the carnal-minded who had ventured to be sceptical before.
    </p>
<p>
      This event—which I should be sorry to discuss in a tone of
      unsuitable levity—occurred in the summer of 18—. Mr. Barnabas
      Shuttleworthy—one of the wealthiest and most respectable citizens of
      the borough—had been missing for several days under circumstances
      which gave rise to suspicion of foul play. Mr. Shuttleworthy had set out
      from Rattleborough very early one Saturday morning, on horseback, with the
      avowed intention of proceeding to the city of-, about fifteen miles
      distant, and of returning the night of the same day. Two hours after his
      departure, however, his horse returned without him, and without the
      saddle-bags which had been strapped on his back at starting. The animal
      was wounded, too, and covered with mud. These circumstances naturally gave
      rise to much alarm among the friends of the missing man; and when it was
      found, on Sunday morning, that he had not yet made his appearance, the
      whole borough arose en masse to go and look for his body.
    </p>
<p>
      The foremost and most energetic in instituting this search was the bosom
      friend of Mr. Shuttleworthy—a Mr. Charles Goodfellow, or, as he was
      universally called, “Charley Goodfellow,” or “Old
      Charley Goodfellow.” Now, whether it is a marvellous coincidence, or
      whether it is that the name itself has an imperceptible effect upon the
      character, I have never yet been able to ascertain; but the fact is
      unquestionable, that there never yet was any person named Charles who was
      not an open, manly, honest, good-natured, and frank-hearted fellow, with a
      rich, clear voice, that did you good to hear it, and an eye that looked
      you always straight in the face, as much as to say: “I have a clear
      conscience myself, am afraid of no man, and am altogether above doing a
      mean action.” And thus all the hearty, careless, “walking
      gentlemen” of the stage are very certain to be called Charles.
    </p>
<p>
      Now, “Old Charley Goodfellow,” although he had been in
      Rattleborough not longer than six months or thereabouts, and although
      nobody knew any thing about him before he came to settle in the
      neighborhood, had experienced no difficulty in the world in making the
      acquaintance of all the respectable people in the borough. Not a man of
      them but would have taken his bare word for a thousand at any moment; and
      as for the women, there is no saying what they would not have done to
      oblige him. And all this came of his having been christened Charles, and
      of his possessing, in consequence, that ingenuous face which is
      proverbially the very “best letter of recommendation.”
    </p>
<p>
      I have already said that Mr. Shuttleworthy was one of the most respectable
      and, undoubtedly, he was the most wealthy man in Rattleborough, while
      “Old Charley Goodfellow” was upon as intimate terms with him
      as if he had been his own brother. The two old gentlemen were next-door
      neighbours, and, although Mr. Shuttleworthy seldom, if ever, visited
      “Old Charley,” and never was known to take a meal in his
      house, still this did not prevent the two friends from being exceedingly
      intimate, as I have just observed; for “Old Charley” never let
      a day pass without stepping in three or four times to see how his
      neighbour came on, and very often he would stay to breakfast or tea, and
      almost always to dinner, and then the amount of wine that was made way
      with by the two cronies at a sitting, it would really be a difficult thing
      to ascertain. “Old Charleys” favorite beverage was
      Chateau-Margaux, and it appeared to do Mr. Shuttleworthy’s heart
      good to see the old fellow swallow it, as he did, quart after quart; so
      that, one day, when the wine was in and the wit as a natural consequence,
      somewhat out, he said to his crony, as he slapped him upon the back—“I
      tell you what it is, ‘Old Charley,’ you are, by all odds, the
      heartiest old fellow I ever came across in all my born days; and, since
      you love to guzzle the wine at that fashion, I’ll be darned if I don’t
      have to make thee a present of a big box of the Chateau-Margaux. Od rot
      me,”—(Mr. Shuttleworthy had a sad habit of swearing, although
      he seldom went beyond “Od rot me,” or “By gosh,”
      or “By the jolly golly,”)—“Od rot me,” says
      he, “if I don’t send an order to town this very afternoon for
      a double box of the best that can be got, and I’ll make ye a present
      of it, I will!—ye needn’t say a word now—I will, I tell
      ye, and there’s an end of it; so look out for it—it will come
      to hand some of these fine days, precisely when ye are looking for it the
      least!” I mention this little bit of liberality on the part of Mr.
      Shuttleworthy, just by way of showing you how very intimate an
      understanding existed between the two friends.
    </p>
<p>
      Well, on the Sunday morning in question, when it came to be fairly
      understood that Mr. Shuttleworthy had met with foul play, I never saw any
      one so profoundly affected as “Old Charley Goodfellow.” When
      he first heard that the horse had come home without his master, and
      without his master’s saddle-bags, and all bloody from a pistol-shot,
      that had gone clean through and through the poor animal’s chest
      without quite killing him; when he heard all this, he turned as pale as if
      the missing man had been his own dear brother or father, and shivered and
      shook all over as if he had had a fit of the ague.
    </p>
<p>
      At first he was too much overpowered with grief to be able to do any thing
      at all, or to concert upon any plan of action; so that for a long time he
      endeavored to dissuade Mr. Shuttleworthy’s other friends from making
      a stir about the matter, thinking it best to wait awhile—say for a
      week or two, or a month, or two—to see if something wouldn’t
      turn up, or if Mr. Shuttleworthy wouldn’t come in the natural way,
      and explain his reasons for sending his horse on before. I dare say you
      have often observed this disposition to temporize, or to procrastinate, in
      people who are labouring under any very poignant sorrow. Their powers of
      mind seem to be rendered torpid, so that they have a horror of any thing
      like action, and like nothing in the world so well as to lie quietly in
      bed and “nurse their grief,” as the old ladies express it—that
      is to say, ruminate over the trouble.
    </p>
<p>
      The people of Rattleborough had, indeed, so high an opinion of the wisdom
      and discretion of “Old Charley,” that the greater part of them
      felt disposed to agree with him, and not make a stir in the business
      “until something should turn up,” as the honest old gentleman
      worded it; and I believe that, after all this would have been the general
      determination, but for the very suspicious interference of Mr.
      Shuttleworthy’s nephew, a young man of very dissipated habits, and
      otherwise of rather bad character. This nephew, whose name was
      Pennifeather, would listen to nothing like reason in the matter of “lying
      quiet,” but insisted upon making immediate search for the “corpse
      of the murdered man.”—This was the expression he employed; and
      Mr. Goodfellow acutely remarked at the time, that it was “a singular
      expression, to say no more.” This remark of ‘Old Charley’s,’
      too, had great effect upon the crowd; and one of the party was heard to
      ask, very impressively, “how it happened that young Mr. Pennifeather
      was so intimately cognizant of all the circumstances connected with his
      wealthy uncle’s disappearance, as to feel authorized to assert,
      distinctly and unequivocally, that his uncle was ‘a murdered man.’”
      Hereupon some little squibbing and bickering occurred among various
      members of the crowd, and especially between “Old Charley” and
      Mr. Pennifeather—although this latter occurrence was, indeed, by no
      means a novelty, for no good will had subsisted between the parties for
      the last three or four months; and matters had even gone so far that Mr.
      Pennifeather had actually knocked down his uncles friend for some alleged
      excess of liberty that the latter had taken in the uncle’s house, of
      which the nephew was an inmate. Upon this occasion “Old Charley”
      is said to have behaved with exemplary moderation and Christian charity.
      He arose from the blow, adjusted his clothes, and made no attempt at
      retaliation at all—merely muttering a few words about “taking
      summary vengeance at the first convenient opportunity,”—a
      natural and very justifiable ebullition of anger, which meant nothing,
      however, and, beyond doubt, was no sooner given vent to than forgotten.
    </p>
<p>
      However these matters may be (which have no reference to the point now at
      issue), it is quite certain that the people of Rattleborough, principally
      through the persuasion of Mr. Pennifeather, came at length to the
      determination of dispersion over the adjacent country in search of the
      missing Mr. Shuttleworthy. I say they came to this determination in the
      first instance. After it had been fully resolved that a search should be
      made, it was considered almost a matter of course that the seekers should
      disperse—that is to say, distribute themselves in parties—for
      the more thorough examination of the region round about. I forget,
      however, by what ingenious train of reasoning it was that “Old
      Charley” finally convinced the assembly that this was the most
      injudicious plan that could be pursued. Convince them, however, he did—all
      except Mr. Pennifeather, and, in the end, it was arranged that a search
      should be instituted, carefully and very thoroughly, by the burghers en
      masse, “Old Charley” himself leading the way.
    </p>
<p>
      As for the matter of that, there could have been no better pioneer than
      “Old Charley,” whom everybody knew to have the eye of a lynx;
      but, although he led them into all manner of out-of-the-way holes and
      corners, by routes that nobody had ever suspected of existing in the
      neighbourhood, and although the search was incessantly kept up day and
      night for nearly a week, still no trace of Mr. Shuttleworthy could be
      discovered. When I say no trace, however, I must not be understood to
      speak literally, for trace, to some extent, there certainly was. The poor
      gentleman had been tracked, by his horses shoes (which were peculiar), to
      a spot about three miles to the east of the borough, on the main road
      leading to the city. Here the track made off into a by-path through a
      piece of woodland—the path coming out again into the main road, and
      cutting off about half a mile of the regular distance. Following the
      shoe-marks down this lane, the party came at length to a pool of stagnant
      water, half hidden by the brambles, to the right of the lane, and opposite
      this pool all vestige of the track was lost sight of. It appeared,
      however, that a struggle of some nature had here taken place, and it
      seemed as if some large and heavy body, much larger and heavier than a
      man, had been drawn from the by-path to the pool. This latter was
      carefully dragged twice, but nothing was found; and the party was upon the
      point of going away, in despair of coming to any result, when Providence
      suggested to Mr. Goodfellow the expediency of draining the water off
      altogether. This project was received with cheers, and many high
      compliments to “Old Charley” upon his sagacity and
      consideration. As many of the burghers had brought spades with them,
      supposing that they might possibly be called upon to disinter a corpse,
      the drain was easily and speedily effected; and no sooner was the bottom
      visible, than right in the middle of the mud that remained was discovered
      a black silk velvet waistcoat, which nearly every one present immediately
      recognized as the property of Mr. Pennifeather. This waistcoat was much
      torn and stained with blood, and there were several persons among the
      party who had a distinct remembrance of its having been worn by its owner
      on the very morning of Mr. Shuttleworthy’s departure for the city;
      while there were others, again, ready to testify upon oath, if required,
      that Mr. P. did not wear the garment in question at any period during the
      remainder of that memorable day, nor could any one be found to say that he
      had seen it upon Mr. P.‘s person at any period at all subsequent to
      Mr. Shuttleworthy’s disappearance.
    </p>
<p>
      Matters now wore a very serious aspect for Mr. Pennifeather, and it was
      observed, as an indubitable confirmation of the suspicions which were
      excited against him, that he grew exceedingly pale, and when asked what he
      had to say for himself, was utterly incapable of saying a word. Hereupon,
      the few friends his riotous mode of living had left him, deserted him at
      once to a man, and were even more clamorous than his ancient and avowed
      enemies for his instantaneous arrest. But, on the other hand, the
      magnanimity of Mr. Goodfellow shone forth with only the more brilliant
      lustre through contrast. He made a warm and intensely eloquent defence of
      Mr. Pennifeather, in which he alluded more than once to his own sincere
      forgiveness of that wild young gentleman—“the heir of the
      worthy Mr. Shuttleworthy,”—for the insult which he (the young
      gentleman) had, no doubt in the heat of passion, thought proper to put
      upon him (Mr. Goodfellow). “He forgave him for it,” he said,
      “from the very bottom of his heart; and for himself (Mr.
      Goodfellow), so far from pushing the suspicious circumstances to
      extremity, which he was sorry to say, really had arisen against Mr.
      Pennifeather, he (Mr. Goodfellow) would make every exertion in his power,
      would employ all the little eloquence in his possession to—to—to—soften
      down, as much as he could conscientiously do so, the worst features of
      this really exceedingly perplexing piece of business.”
    </p>
<p>
      Mr. Goodfellow went on for some half hour longer in this strain, very much
      to the credit both of his head and of his heart; but your warm-hearted
      people are seldom apposite in their observations—they run into all
      sorts of blunders, contre-temps and mal apropos-isms, in the
      hot-headedness of their zeal to serve a friend—thus, often with the
      kindest intentions in the world, doing infinitely more to prejudice his
      cause than to advance it.
    </p>
<p>
      So, in the present instance, it turned out with all the eloquence of
      “Old Charley”; for, although he laboured earnestly in behalf
      of the suspected, yet it so happened, somehow or other, that every
      syllable he uttered of which the direct but unwitting tendency was not to
      exalt the speaker in the good opinion of his audience, had the effect to
      deepen the suspicion already attached to the individual whose cause he
      pleaded, and to arouse against him the fury of the mob.
    </p>
<p>
      One of the most unaccountable errors committed by the orator was his
      allusion to the suspected as “the heir of the worthy old gentleman
      Mr. Shuttleworthy.” The people had really never thought of this
      before. They had only remembered certain threats of disinheritance uttered
      a year or two previously by the uncle (who had no living relative except
      the nephew), and they had, therefore, always looked upon this
      disinheritance as a matter that was settled—so single-minded a race
      of beings were the Rattleburghers; but the remark of “Old Charley”
      brought them at once to a consideration of this point, and thus gave them
      to see the possibility of the threats having been nothing more than a
      threat. And straightway hereupon, arose the natural question of cui bono?—a
      question that tended even more than the waistcoat to fasten the terrible
      crime upon the young man. And here, lest I may be misunderstood, permit me
      to digress for one moment merely to observe that the exceedingly brief and
      simple Latin phrase which I have employed, is invariably mistranslated and
      misconceived. “Cui bono?” in all the crack novels and
      elsewhere,—in those of Mrs. Gore, for example, (the author of
      “Cecil,”) a lady who quotes all tongues from the Chaldaean to
      Chickasaw, and is helped to her learning, “as needed,” upon a
      systematic plan, by Mr. Beckford,—in all the crack novels, I say,
      from those of Bulwer and Dickens to those of Bulwer and Dickens to those
      of Turnapenny and Ainsworth, the two little Latin words cui bono are
      rendered “to what purpose?” or, (as if quo bono,) “to
      what good.” Their true meaning, nevertheless, is “for whose
      advantage.” Cui, to whom; bono, is it for a benefit. It is a purely
      legal phrase, and applicable precisely in cases such as we have now under
      consideration, where the probability of the doer of a deed hinges upon the
      probability of the benefit accruing to this individual or to that from the
      deed’s accomplishment. Now in the present instance, the question cui
      bono? very pointedly implicated Mr. Pennifeather. His uncle had threatened
      him, after making a will in his favour, with disinheritance. But the
      threat had not been actually kept; the original will, it appeared, had not
      been altered. Had it been altered, the only supposable motive for murder
      on the part of the suspected would have been the ordinary one of revenge;
      and even this would have been counteracted by the hope of reinstation into
      the good graces of the uncle. But the will being unaltered, while the
      threat to alter remained suspended over the nephew’s head, there
      appears at once the very strongest possible inducement for the atrocity,
      and so concluded, very sagaciously, the worthy citizens of the borough of
      Rattle.
    </p>
<p>
      Mr. Pennifeather was, accordingly, arrested upon the spot, and the crowd,
      after some further search, proceeded homeward, having him in custody. On
      the route, however, another circumstance occurred tending to confirm the
      suspicion entertained. Mr. Goodfellow, whose zeal led him to be always a
      little in advance of the party, was seen suddenly to run forward a few
      paces, stoop, and then apparently to pick up some small object from the
      grass. Having quickly examined it he was observed, too, to make a sort of
      half attempt at concealing it in his coat pocket; but this action was
      noticed, as I say, and consequently prevented, when the object picked up
      was found to be a Spanish knife which a dozen persons at once recognized
      as belonging to Mr. Pennifeather. Moreover, his initials were engraved
      upon the handle. The blade of this knife was open and bloody.
    </p>
<p>
      No doubt now remained of the guilt of the nephew, and immediately upon
      reaching Rattleborough he was taken before a magistrate for examination.
    </p>
<p>
      Here matters again took a most unfavourable turn. The prisoner, being
      questioned as to his whereabouts on the morning of Mr. Shuttleworthy’s
      disappearance, had absolutely the audacity to acknowledge that on that
      very morning he had been out with his rifle deer-stalking, in the
      immediate neighbourhood of the pool where the blood-stained waistcoat had
      been discovered through the sagacity of Mr. Goodfellow.
    </p>
<p>
      This latter now came forward, and, with tears in his eyes, asked
      permission to be examined. He said that a stern sense of the duty he owed
      his Maker, not less than his fellow-men, would permit him no longer to
      remain silent. Hitherto, the sincerest affection for the young man
      (notwithstanding the latter’s ill-treatment of himself, Mr.
      Goodfellow) had induced him to make every hypothesis which imagination
      could suggest, by way of endeavoring to account for what appeared
      suspicious in the circumstances that told so seriously against Mr.
      Pennifeather, but these circumstances were now altogether too convincing—too
      damning, he would hesitate no longer—he would tell all he knew,
      although his heart (Mr. Goodfellow’s) should absolutely burst
      asunder in the effort. He then went on to state that, on the afternoon of
      the day previous to Mr. Shuttleworthy’s departure for the city, that
      worthy old gentleman had mentioned to his nephew, in his hearing (Mr.
      Goodfellow’s), that his object in going to town on the morrow was to
      make a deposit of an unusually large sum of money in the “Farmers
      and Mechanics’ Bank,” and that, then and there, the said Mr.
      Shuttleworthy had distinctly avowed to the said nephew his irrevocable
      determination of rescinding the will originally made, and of cutting him
      off with a shilling. He (the witness) now solemnly called upon the accused
      to state whether what he (the witness) had just stated was or was not the
      truth in every substantial particular. Much to the astonishment of every
      one present, Mr. Pennifeather frankly admitted that it was.
    </p>
<p>
      The magistrate now considered it his duty to send a couple of constables
      to search the chamber of the accused in the house of his uncle. From this
      search they almost immediately returned with the well-known steel-bound,
      russet leather pocket-book which the old gentleman had been in the habit
      of carrying for years. Its valuable contents, however, had been
      abstracted, and the magistrate in vain endeavored to extort from the
      prisoner the use which had been made of them, or the place of their
      concealment. Indeed, he obstinately denied all knowledge of the matter.
      The constables, also, discovered, between the bed and sacking of the
      unhappy man, a shirt and neck-handkerchief both marked with the initials
      of his name, and both hideously besmeared with the blood of the victim.
    </p>
<p>
      At this juncture, it was announced that the horse of the murdered man had
      just expired in the stable from the effects of the wound he had received,
      and it was proposed by Mr. Goodfellow that a post mortem examination of
      the beast should be immediately made, with the view, if possible, of
      discovering the ball. This was accordingly done; and, as if to demonstrate
      beyond a question the guilt of the accused, Mr. Goodfellow, after
      considerable searching in the cavity of the chest was enabled to detect
      and to pull forth a bullet of very extraordinary size, which, upon trial,
      was found to be exactly adapted to the bore of Mr. Pennifeather’s
      rifle, while it was far too large for that of any other person in the
      borough or its vicinity. To render the matter even surer yet, however,
      this bullet was discovered to have a flaw or seam at right angles to the
      usual suture, and upon examination, this seam corresponded precisely with
      an accidental ridge or elevation in a pair of moulds acknowledged by the
      accused himself to be his own property. Upon finding of this bullet, the
      examining magistrate refused to listen to any farther testimony, and
      immediately committed the prisoner for trial-declining resolutely to take
      any bail in the case, although against this severity Mr. Goodfellow very
      warmly remonstrated, and offered to become surety in whatever amount might
      be required. This generosity on the part of “Old Charley” was
      only in accordance with the whole tenour of his amiable and chivalrous
      conduct during the entire period of his sojourn in the borough of Rattle.
      In the present instance the worthy man was so entirely carried away by the
      excessive warmth of his sympathy, that he seemed to have quite forgotten,
      when he offered to go bail for his young friend, that he himself (Mr.
      Goodfellow) did not possess a single dollar’s worth of property upon
      the face of the earth.
    </p>
<p>
      The result of the committal may be readily foreseen. Mr. Pennifeather,
      amid the loud execrations of all Rattleborough, was brought to trial at
      the next criminal sessions, when the chain of circumstantial evidence
      (strengthened as it was by some additional damning facts, which Mr.
      Goodfellow’s sensitive conscientiousness forbade him to withhold
      from the court) was considered so unbroken and so thoroughly conclusive,
      that the jury, without leaving their seats, returned an immediate verdict
      of “Guilty of murder in the first degree.” Soon afterward the
      unhappy wretch received sentence of death, and was remanded to the county
      jail to await the inexorable vengeance of the law.
    </p>
<p>
      In the meantime, the noble behavior of “Old Charley Goodfellow,”
      had doubly endeared him to the honest citizens of the borough. He became
      ten times a greater favorite than ever, and, as a natural result of the
      hospitality with which he was treated, he relaxed, as it were, perforce,
      the extremely parsimonious habits which his poverty had hitherto impelled
      him to observe, and very frequently had little reunions at his own house,
      when wit and jollity reigned supreme-dampened a little, of course, by the
      occasional remembrance of the untoward and melancholy fate which impended
      over the nephew of the late lamented bosom friend of the generous host.
    </p>
<p>
      One fine day, this magnanimous old gentleman was agreeably surprised at
      the receipt of the following letter:-
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
 Charles Goodfellow, Esq., Rattleborough
 From H.F.B. &amp; Co.
 Chat. Mar. A—No. 1.—6 doz. bottles (1/2 Gross)

 “Charles Goodfellow, Esquire.

 “Dear Sir—In conformity with an order transmitted to our firm about
 two months since, by our esteemed correspondent, Mr. Barnabus
 Shuttleworthy, we have the honor of forwarding this morning, to your
 address, a double box of Chateau-Margaux of the antelope brand, violet
 seal. Box numbered and marked as per margin.

 “We remain, sir,
         “Your most ob’nt ser’ts,
                 “HOGGS, FROGS, BOGS, &amp; CO.

 “City of—, June 21, 18—.

 “P.S.—The box will reach you by wagon, on the day after your receipt
 of this letter. Our respects to Mr. Shuttleworthy.

                  “H., F., B., &amp; CO.”
 </pre>
<p>
      The fact is, that Mr. Goodfellow had, since the death of Mr.
      Shuttleworthy, given over all expectation of ever receiving the promised
      Chateau-Margaux; and he, therefore, looked upon it now as a sort of
      especial dispensation of Providence in his behalf. He was highly
      delighted, of course, and in the exuberance of his joy invited a large
      party of friends to a petit souper on the morrow, for the purpose of
      broaching the good old Mr. Shuttleworthy’s present. Not that he said
      any thing about “the good old Mr. Shuttleworthy” when he
      issued the invitations. The fact is, he thought much and concluded to say
      nothing at all. He did not mention to any one—if I remember aright—that
      he had received a present of Chateau-Margaux. He merely asked his friends
      to come and help him drink some, of a remarkable fine quality and rich
      flavour, that he had ordered up from the city a couple of months ago, and
      of which he would be in the receipt upon the morrow. I have often puzzled
      myself to imagine why it was that “Old Charley” came to the
      conclusion to say nothing about having received the wine from his old
      friend, but I could never precisely understand his reason for the silence,
      although he had some excellent and very magnanimous reason, no doubt.
    </p>
<p>
      The morrow at length arrived, and with it a very large and highly
      respectable company at Mr. Goodfellow’s house. Indeed, half the
      borough was there,—I myself among the number,—but, much to the
      vexation of the host, the Chateau-Margaux did not arrive until a late
      hour, and when the sumptuous supper supplied by “Old Charley”
      had been done very ample justice by the guests. It came at length,
      however,—a monstrously big box of it there was, too—and as the
      whole party were in excessively good humor, it was decided, nem. con.,
      that it should be lifted upon the table and its contents disembowelled
      forthwith.
    </p>
<p>
      No sooner said than done. I lent a helping hand; and, in a trice we had
      the box upon the table, in the midst of all the bottles and glasses, not a
      few of which were demolished in the scuffle. “Old Charley,”
      who was pretty much intoxicated, and excessively red in the face, now took
      a seat, with an air of mock dignity, at the head of the board, and thumped
      furiously upon it with a decanter, calling upon the company to keep order
      “during the ceremony of disinterring the treasure.”
    </p>
<p>
      After some vociferation, quiet was at length fully restored, and, as very
      often happens in similar cases, a profound and remarkable silence ensued.
      Being then requested to force open the lid, I complied, of course, “with
      an infinite deal of pleasure.” I inserted a chisel, and giving it a
      few slight taps with a hammer, the top of the box flew suddenly off, and
      at the same instant, there sprang up into a sitting position, directly
      facing the host, the bruised, bloody, and nearly putrid corpse of the
      murdered Mr. Shuttleworthy himself. It gazed for a few seconds, fixedly
      and sorrowfully, with its decaying and lack-lustre eyes, full into the
      countenance of Mr. Goodfellow; uttered slowly, but clearly and
      impressively, the words—“Thou art the man!” and then,
      falling over the side of the chest as if thoroughly satisfied, stretched
      out its limbs quiveringly upon the table.
    </p>
<p>
      The scene that ensued is altogether beyond description. The rush for the
      doors and windows was terrific, and many of the most robust men in the
      room fainted outright through sheer horror. But after the first wild,
      shrieking burst of affright, all eyes were directed to Mr. Goodfellow. If
      I live a thousand years, I can never forget the more than mortal agony
      which was depicted in that ghastly face of his, so lately rubicund with
      triumph and wine. For several minutes he sat rigidly as a statue of
      marble; his eyes seeming, in the intense vacancy of their gaze, to be
      turned inward and absorbed in the contemplation of his own miserable,
      murderous soul. At length their expression appeared to flash suddenly out
      into the external world, when, with a quick leap, he sprang from his
      chair, and falling heavily with his head and shoulders upon the table, and
      in contact with the corpse, poured out rapidly and vehemently a detailed
      confession of the hideous crime for which Mr. Pennifeather was then
      imprisoned and doomed to die.
    </p>
<p>
      What he recounted was in substance this:—He followed his victim to
      the vicinity of the pool; there shot his horse with a pistol; despatched
      its rider with the butt end; possessed himself of the pocket-book, and,
      supposing the horse dead, dragged it with great labour to the brambles by
      the pond. Upon his own beast he slung the corpse of Mr. Shuttleworthy, and
      thus bore it to a secure place of concealment a long distance off through
      the woods.
    </p>
<p>
      The waistcoat, the knife, the pocket-book, and bullet, had been placed by
      himself where found, with the view of avenging himself upon Mr.
      Pennifeather. He had also contrived the discovery of the stained
      handkerchief and shirt.
    </p>
<p>
      Towards the end of the blood-churning recital the words of the guilty
      wretch faltered and grew hollow. When the record was finally exhausted, he
      arose, staggered backward from the table, and fell-dead.
    </p>
<hr/>
<p>
      The means by which this happily-timed confession was extorted, although
      efficient, were simple indeed. Mr. Goodfellow’s excess of frankness
      had disgusted me, and excited my suspicions from the first. I was present
      when Mr. Pennifeather had struck him, and the fiendish expression which
      then arose upon his countenance, although momentary, assured me that his
      threat of vengeance would, if possible, be rigidly fulfilled. I was thus
      prepared to view the manoeuvering of “Old Charley” in a very
      different light from that in which it was regarded by the good citizens of
      Rattleborough. I saw at once that all the criminating discoveries arose,
      either directly or indirectly, from himself. But the fact which clearly
      opened my eyes to the true state of the case, was the affair of the
      bullet, found by Mr. G. in the carcass of the horse. I had not forgotten,
      although the Rattleburghers had, that there was a hole where the ball had
      entered the horse, and another where it went out. If it were found in the
      animal then, after having made its exit, I saw clearly that it must have
      been deposited by the person who found it. The bloody shirt and
      handkerchief confirmed the idea suggested by the bullet; for the blood on
      examination proved to be capital claret, and no more. When I came to think
      of these things, and also of the late increase of liberality and
      expenditure on the part of Mr. Goodfellow, I entertained a suspicion which
      was none the less strong because I kept it altogether to myself.
    </p>
<p>
      In the meantime, I instituted a rigorous private search for the corpse of
      Mr. Shuttleworthy, and, for good reasons, searched in quarters as
      divergent as possible from those to which Mr. Goodfellow conducted his
      party. The result was that, after some days, I came across an old dry
      well, the mouth of which was nearly hidden by brambles; and here, at the
      bottom, I discovered what I sought.
    </p>
<p>
      Now it so happened that I had overheard the colloquy between the two
      cronies, when Mr. Goodfellow had contrived to cajole his host into the
      promise of a box of Chateaux-Margaux. Upon this hint I acted. I procured a
      stiff piece of whalebone, thrust it down the throat of the corpse, and
      deposited the latter in an old wine box-taking care so to double the body
      up as to double the whalebone with it. In this manner I had to press
      forcibly upon the lid to keep it down while I secured it with nails; and I
      anticipated, of course, that as soon as these latter were removed, the top
      would fly off and the body up.
    </p>
<p>
      Having thus arranged the box, I marked, numbered, and addressed it as
      already told; and then writing a letter in the name of the wine merchants
      with whom Mr. Shuttleworthy dealt, I gave instructions to my servant to
      wheel the box to Mr. Goodfellow’s door, in a barrow, at a given
      signal from myself. For the words which I intended the corpse to speak, I
      confidently depended upon my ventriloquial abilities; for their effect, I
      counted upon the conscience of the murderous wretch.
    </p>
<p>
      I believe there is nothing more to be explained. Mr. Pennifeather was
      released upon the spot, inherited the fortune of his uncle, profited by
      the lessons of experience, turned over a new leaf, and led happily ever
      afterward a new life.
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0008">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      WHY THE LITTLE FRENCHMAN WEARS HIS HAND IN A SLING
    </h2>
<p>
      IT’S on my visiting cards sure enough (and it’s them that’s
      all o’ pink satin paper) that inny gintleman that plases may behould
      the intheristhin words, “Sir Pathrick O’Grandison, Barronitt,
      39 Southampton Row, Russell Square, Parrish o’ Bloomsbury.”
      And shud ye be wantin’ to diskiver who is the pink of purliteness
      quite, and the laider of the hot tun in the houl city o’ Lonon—why
      it’s jist mesilf. And fait that same is no wonder at all at all (so
      be plased to stop curlin your nose), for every inch o’ the six wakes
      that I’ve been a gintleman, and left aff wid the bogthrothing to
      take up wid the Barronissy, it’s Pathrick that’s been living
      like a houly imperor, and gitting the iddication and the graces. Och! and
      wouldn’t it be a blessed thing for your spirrits if ye cud lay your
      two peepers jist, upon Sir Pathrick O’Grandison, Barronitt, when he
      is all riddy drissed for the hopperer, or stipping into the Brisky for the
      drive into the Hyde Park. But it’s the illigant big figgur that I
      ave, for the rason o’ which all the ladies fall in love wid me. Isn’t
      it my own swate silf now that’ll missure the six fut, and the three
      inches more nor that, in me stockins, and that am excadingly will
      proportioned all over to match? And it is ralelly more than three fut and
      a bit that there is, inny how, of the little ould furrener Frinchman that
      lives jist over the way, and that’s a oggling and a goggling the
      houl day, (and bad luck to him,) at the purty widdy Misthress Tracle that’s
      my own nixt-door neighbor, (God bliss her!) and a most particuller frind
      and acquaintance? You percave the little spalpeen is summat down in the
      mouth, and wears his lift hand in a sling, and it’s for that same
      thing, by yur lave, that I’m going to give you the good rason.
    </p>
<p>
      The truth of the houl matter is jist simple enough; for the very first day
      that I com’d from Connaught, and showd my swate little silf in the
      strait to the widdy, who was looking through the windy, it was a gone case
      althegither with the heart o’ the purty Misthress Tracle. I percaved
      it, ye see, all at once, and no mistake, and that’s God’s
      truth. First of all it was up wid the windy in a jiffy, and thin she threw
      open her two peepers to the itmost, and thin it was a little gould
      spy-glass that she clapped tight to one o’ them and divil may burn
      me if it didn’t spake to me as plain as a peeper cud spake, and says
      it, through the spy-glass: “Och! the tip o’ the mornin’
      to ye, Sir Pathrick O’Grandison, Barronitt, mavourneen; and it’s
      a nate gintleman that ye are, sure enough, and it’s mesilf and me
      forten jist that’ll be at yur sarvice, dear, inny time o’ day
      at all at all for the asking.” And it’s not mesilf ye wud have
      to be bate in the purliteness; so I made her a bow that wud ha’
      broken yur heart altegither to behould, and thin I pulled aff me hat with
      a flourish, and thin I winked at her hard wid both eyes, as much as to
      say, “True for you, yer a swate little crature, Mrs. Tracle, me
      darlint, and I wish I may be drownthed dead in a bog, if it’s not
      mesilf, Sir Pathrick O’Grandison, Barronitt, that’ll make a
      houl bushel o’ love to yur leddyship, in the twinkling o’ the
      eye of a Londonderry purraty.”
    </p>
<p>
      And it was the nixt mornin’, sure, jist as I was making up me mind
      whither it wouldn’t be the purlite thing to sind a bit o’
      writin’ to the widdy by way of a love-litter, when up com’d
      the delivery servant wid an illigant card, and he tould me that the name
      on it (for I niver could rade the copperplate printin on account of being
      lift handed) was all about Mounseer, the Count, A Goose, Look—aisy,
      Maiter-di-dauns, and that the houl of the divilish lingo was the spalpeeny
      long name of the little ould furrener Frinchman as lived over the way.
    </p>
<p>
      And jist wid that in cum’d the little willian himself, and then he
      made me a broth of a bow, and thin he said he had ounly taken the liberty
      of doing me the honor of the giving me a call, and thin he went on to
      palaver at a great rate, and divil the bit did I comprehind what he wud be
      afther the tilling me at all at all, excipting and saving that he said
      “pully wou, woolly wou,” and tould me, among a bushel o’
      lies, bad luck to him, that he was mad for the love o’ my widdy
      Misthress Tracle, and that my widdy Mrs. Tracle had a puncheon for him.
    </p>
<p>
      At the hearin’ of this, ye may swear, though, I was as mad as a
      grasshopper, but I remimbered that I was Sir Pathrick O’Grandison,
      Barronitt, and that it wasn’t althegither gentaal to lit the anger
      git the upper hand o’ the purliteness, so I made light o’ the
      matter and kipt dark, and got quite sociable wid the little chap, and
      afther a while what did he do but ask me to go wid him to the widdy’s,
      saying he wud give me the feshionable inthroduction to her leddyship.
    </p>
<p>
      “Is it there ye are?” said I thin to mesilf, “and it’s
      thrue for you, Pathrick, that ye’re the fortunittest mortal in life.
      We’ll soon see now whither it’s your swate silf, or whither it’s
      little Mounseer Maiter-di-dauns, that Misthress Tracle is head and ears in
      the love wid.”
    </p>
<p>
      Wid that we wint aff to the widdy’s, next door, and ye may well say
      it was an illigant place; so it was. There was a carpet all over the
      floor, and in one corner there was a forty-pinny and a Jew’s harp
      and the divil knows what ilse, and in another corner was a sofy, the
      beautifullest thing in all natur, and sitting on the sofy, sure enough,
      there was the swate little angel, Misthress Tracle.
    </p>
<p>
      “The tip o’ the mornin’ to ye,” says I, “Mrs.
      Tracle,” and thin I made sich an illigant obaysance that it wud ha
      quite althegither bewildered the brain o’ ye.
    </p>
<p>
      “Wully woo, pully woo, plump in the mud,” says the little
      furrenner Frinchman, “and sure Mrs. Tracle,” says he, that he
      did, “isn’t this gintleman here jist his reverence Sir
      Pathrick O’Grandison, Barronitt, and isn’t he althegither and
      entirely the most particular frind and acquaintance that I have in the
      houl world?”
    </p>
<p>
      And wid that the widdy, she gits up from the sofy, and makes the swatest
      curthchy nor iver was seen; and thin down she sits like an angel; and
      thin, by the powers, it was that little spalpeen Mounseer Maiter-di-dauns
      that plumped his silf right down by the right side of her. Och hon! I
      ixpicted the two eyes o’ me wud ha cum’d out of my head on the
      spot, I was so dispirate mad! Howiver, “Bait who!” says I,
      after awhile. “Is it there ye are, Mounseer Maiter-di-dauns?”
      and so down I plumped on the lift side of her leddyship, to be aven with
      the willain. Botheration! it wud ha done your heart good to percave the
      illigant double wink that I gived her jist thin right in the face with
      both eyes.
    </p>
<p>
      But the little ould Frinchman he niver beginned to suspict me at all at
      all, and disperate hard it was he made the love to her leddyship. “Woully
      wou,” says he, “Pully wou,” says he, “Plump in the
      mud,” says he.
    </p>
<p>
      “That’s all to no use, Mounseer Frog, mavourneen,”
      thinks I; and I talked as hard and as fast as I could all the while, and
      throth it was mesilf jist that divarted her leddyship complately and
      intirely, by rason of the illigant conversation that I kipt up wid her all
      about the dear bogs of Connaught. And by and by she gived me such a swate
      smile, from one ind of her mouth to the ither, that it made me as bould as
      a pig, and I jist took hould of the ind of her little finger in the most
      dillikitest manner in natur, looking at her all the while out o’ the
      whites of my eyes.
    </p>
<p>
      And then ounly percave the cuteness of the swate angel, for no sooner did
      she obsarve that I was afther the squazing of her flipper, than she up wid
      it in a jiffy, and put it away behind her back, jist as much as to say,
      “Now thin, Sir Pathrick O’Grandison, there’s a bitther
      chance for ye, mavourneen, for it’s not altogether the gentaal thing
      to be afther the squazing of my flipper right full in the sight of that
      little furrenner Frinchman, Mounseer Maiter-di-dauns.”
    </p>
<p>
      Wid that I giv’d her a big wink jist to say, “lit Sir Pathrick
      alone for the likes o’ them thricks,” and thin I wint aisy to
      work, and you’d have died wid the divarsion to behould how cliverly
      I slipped my right arm betwane the back o’ the sofy, and the back of
      her leddyship, and there, sure enough, I found a swate little flipper all
      a waiting to say, “the tip o’ the mornin’ to ye, Sir
      Pathrick O’Grandison, Barronitt.” And wasn’t it mesilf,
      sure, that jist giv’d it the laste little bit of a squaze in the
      world, all in the way of a commincement, and not to be too rough wid her
      leddyship? and och, botheration, wasn’t it the gentaalest and
      dilikittest of all the little squazes that I got in return? “Blood
      and thunder, Sir Pathrick, mavourneen,” thinks I to mesilf, “fait
      it’s jist the mother’s son of you, and nobody else at all at
      all, that’s the handsomest and the fortunittest young bog-throtter
      that ever cum’d out of Connaught!” And with that I givd the
      flipper a big squaze, and a big squaze it was, by the powers, that her
      leddyship giv’d to me back. But it would ha split the seven sides of
      you wid the laffin’ to behould, jist then all at once, the consated
      behavior of Mounseer Maiter-di-dauns. The likes o’ sich a jabbering,
      and a smirking, and a parley-wouing as he begin’d wid her leddyship,
      niver was known before upon arth; and divil may burn me if it wasn’t
      me own very two peepers that cotch’d him tipping her the wink out of
      one eye. Och, hon! if it wasn’t mesilf thin that was mad as a
      Kilkenny cat I shud like to be tould who it was!
    </p>
<p>
      “Let me infarm you, Mounseer Maiter-di-dauns,” said I, as
      purlite as iver ye seed, “that it’s not the gintaal thing at
      all at all, and not for the likes o’ you inny how, to be afther the
      oggling and a goggling at her leddyship in that fashion,” and jist
      wid that such another squaze as it was I giv’d her flipper, all as
      much as to say, “isn’t it Sir Pathrick now, my jewel, that’ll
      be able to the proticting o’ you, my darlint?” and then there
      cum’d another squaze back, all by way of the answer. “Thrue
      for you, Sir Pathrick,” it said as plain as iver a squaze said in
      the world, “Thrue for you, Sir Pathrick, mavourneen, and it’s
      a proper nate gintleman ye are—that’s God’s truth,”
      and with that she opened her two beautiful peepers till I belaved they wud
      ha’ cum’d out of her hid althegither and intirely, and she
      looked first as mad as a cat at Mounseer Frog, and thin as smiling as all
      out o’ doors at mesilf.
    </p>
<p>
      “Thin,” says he, the willian, “Och hon! and a wolly-wou,
      pully-wou,” and then wid that he shoved up his two shoulders till
      the divil the bit of his hid was to be diskivered, and then he let down
      the two corners of his purraty-trap, and thin not a haporth more of the
      satisfaction could I git out o’ the spalpeen.
    </p>
<p>
      Belave me, my jewel, it was Sir Pathrick that was unreasonable mad thin,
      and the more by token that the Frinchman kipt an wid his winking at the
      widdy; and the widdy she kept an wid the squazing of my flipper, as much
      as to say, “At him again, Sir Pathrick O’Grandison,
      mavourneen:” so I just ripped out wid a big oath, and says I;
    </p>
<p>
      “Ye little spalpeeny frog of a bog-throtting son of a bloody noun!”—and
      jist thin what d’ye think it was that her leddyship did? Troth she
      jumped up from the sofy as if she was bit, and made off through the door,
      while I turned my head round afther her, in a complate bewilderment and
      botheration, and followed her wid me two peepers. You percave I had a
      reason of my own for knowing that she couldn’t git down the stares
      althegither and intirely; for I knew very well that I had hould of her
      hand, for the divil the bit had I iver lit it go. And says I; “Isn’t
      it the laste little bit of a mistake in the world that ye’ve been
      afther the making, yer leddyship? Come back now, that’s a darlint,
      and I’ll give ye yur flipper.” But aff she wint down the
      stairs like a shot, and thin I turned round to the little Frinch
      furrenner. Och hon! if it wasn’t his spalpeeny little paw that I had
      hould of in my own—why thin—thin it wasn’t—that’s
      all.
    </p>
<p>
      And maybe it wasn’t mesilf that jist died then outright wid the
      laffin’, to behold the little chap when he found out that it wasn’t
      the widdy at all at all that he had had hould of all the time, but only
      Sir Pathrick O’Grandison. The ould divil himself niver behild sich a
      long face as he pet an! As for Sir Pathrick O’Grandison, Barronitt,
      it wasn’t for the likes of his riverence to be afther the minding of
      a thrifle of a mistake. Ye may jist say, though (for it’s God’s
      thruth), that afore I left hould of the flipper of the spalpeen (which was
      not till afther her leddyship’s futman had kicked us both down the
      stairs), I giv’d it such a nate little broth of a squaze as made it
      all up into raspberry jam.
    </p>
<p>
      “Woully wou,” says he, “pully wou,” says he—“Cot
      tam!”
    </p>
<p>
      And that’s jist the thruth of the rason why he wears his lift hand
      in a sling.
    </p>
<p>
      BON-BON.
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
          Quand un bon vin meuble mon estomac,
          Je suis plus savant que Balzac—          Plus sage que Pibrac;
          Mon brass seul faisant l’attaque
          De la nation Coseaque,
          La mettroit au sac;
          De Charon je passerois le lac,
          En dormant dans son bac;
          J’irois au fier Eac,
          Sans que mon coeur fit tic ni tac,
          Pr?senter du tabac.
                      French Vaudeville
</pre>
<p>
      THAT Pierre Bon-Bon was a <i>restaurateur</i> of uncommon qualifications,
      no man who, during the reign of——, frequented the little C?f?
      in the cul-de-sac Le Febvre at Rouen, will, I imagine, feel himself at
      liberty to dispute. That Pierre Bon-Bon was, in an equal degree, skilled
      in the philosophy of that period is, I presume, still more especially
      undeniable. His <i>pat?s ? la fois</i> were beyond doubt immaculate; but
      what pen can do justice to his essays <i>sur la Nature</i>—his
      thoughts sur <i>l’Ame</i>—his observations <i>sur l’Esprit?</i>
      If his <i>omelettes</i>—if his <i>fricandeaux</i> were inestimable,
      what <i>litt?rateur</i> of that day would not have given twice as much for
      an “<i>Id?e de Bon-Bon</i>” as for all the trash of “<i>Id?es</i>”
      of all the rest of the <i>savants?</i> Bon-Bon had ransacked libraries
      which no other man had ransacked—had more than any other would have
      entertained a notion of reading—had understood more than any other
      would have conceived the possibility of understanding; and although, while
      he flourished, there were not wanting some authors at Rouen to assert
      “that his <i>dicta</i> evinced neither the purity of the Academy,
      nor the depth of the Lyceum”—although, mark me, his doctrines
      were by no means very generally comprehended, still it did not follow that
      they were difficult of comprehension. It was, I think, on account of their
      self-evidency that many persons were led to consider them abstruse. It is
      to Bon-Bon—but let this go no farther—it is to Bon-Bon that
      Kant himself is mainly indebted for his metaphysics. The former was indeed
      not a Platonist, nor strictly speaking an Aristotelian—nor did he,
      like the modern Leibnitz, waste those precious hours which might be
      employed in the invention of a <i>fricas?e</i> or, <i>facili gradu</i>,
      the analysis of a sensation, in frivolous attempts at reconciling the
      obstinate oils and waters of ethical discussion. Not at all. Bon-Bon was
      Ionic—Bon-Bon was equally Italic. He reasoned <i>? priori</i>—He
      reasoned also <i>? posteriori</i>. His ideas were innate—or
      otherwise. He believed in George of Trebizonde—He believed in
      Bossarion [Bessarion]. Bon-Bon was emphatically a—Bon-Bonist.
    </p>
<p>
      I have spoken of the philosopher in his capacity of <i>restaurateur</i>. I
      would not, however, have any friend of mine imagine that, in fulfilling
      his hereditary duties in that line, our hero wanted a proper estimation of
      their dignity and importance. Far from it. It was impossible to say in
      which branch of his profession he took the greater pride. In his opinion
      the powers of the intellect held intimate connection with the capabilities
      of the stomach. I am not sure, indeed, that he greatly disagreed with the
      Chinese, who held that the soul lies in the abdomen. The Greeks at all
      events were right, he thought, who employed the same words for the mind
      and the diaphragm. (*1) By this I do not mean to insinuate a charge of
      gluttony, or indeed any other serious charge to the prejudice of the
      metaphysician. If Pierre Bon-Bon had his failings—and what great man
      has not a thousand?—if Pierre Bon-Bon, I say, had his failings, they
      were failings of very little importance—faults indeed which, in
      other tempers, have often been looked upon rather in the light of virtues.
      As regards one of these foibles, I should not even have mentioned it in
      this history but for the remarkable prominency—the extreme <i>alto
      relievo</i>—in which it jutted out from the plane of his general
      disposition. He could never let slip an opportunity of making a bargain.
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     {*1} MD
</pre>
<p>
      Not that he was avaricious—no. It was by no means necessary to the
      satisfaction of the philosopher, that the bargain should be to his own
      proper advantage. Provided a trade could be effected—a trade of any
      kind, upon any terms, or under any circumstances—a triumphant smile
      was seen for many days thereafter to enlighten his countenance, and a
      knowing wink of the eye to give evidence of his sagacity.
    </p>
<p>
      At any epoch it would not be very wonderful if a humor so peculiar as the
      one I have just mentioned, should elicit attention and remark. At the
      epoch of our narrative, had this peculiarity not attracted observation,
      there would have been room for wonder indeed. It was soon reported that,
      upon all occasions of the kind, the smile of Bon-Bon was wont to differ
      widely from the downright grin with which he would laugh at his own jokes,
      or welcome an acquaintance. Hints were thrown out of an exciting nature;
      stories were told of perilous bargains made in a hurry and repented of at
      leisure; and instances were adduced of unaccountable capacities, vague
      longings, and unnatural inclinations implanted by the author of all evil
      for wise purposes of his own.
    </p>
<p>
      The philosopher had other weaknesses—but they are scarcely worthy
      our serious examination. For example, there are few men of extraordinary
      profundity who are found wanting in an inclination for the bottle. Whether
      this inclination be an exciting cause, or rather a valid proof of such
      profundity, it is a nice thing to say. Bon-Bon, as far as I can learn, did
      not think the subject adapted to minute investigation;—nor do I. Yet
      in the indulgence of a propensity so truly classical, it is not to be
      supposed that the restaurateur would lose sight of that intuitive
      discrimination which was wont to characterize, at one and the same time,
      his essais and his omelettes. In his seclusions the Vin de Bourgogne had
      its allotted hour, and there were appropriate moments for the Cotes du
      Rhone. With him Sauterne was to Medoc what Catullus was to Homer. He would
      sport with a syllogism in sipping St. Peray, but unravel an argument over
      Clos de Vougeot, and upset a theory in a torrent of Chambertin. Well had
      it been if the same quick sense of propriety had attended him in the
      peddling propensity to which I have formerly alluded—but this was by
      no means the case. Indeed to say the truth, that trait of mind in the
      philosophic Bon-Bon did begin at length to assume a character of strange
      intensity and mysticism, and appeared deeply tinctured with the diablerie
      of his favorite German studies.
    </p>
<p>
      To enter the little Cafe in the cul-de-sac Le Febvre was, at the period of
      our tale, to enter the sanctum of a man of genius. Bon-Bon was a man of
      genius. There was not a sous-cusinier in Rouen, who could not have told
      you that Bon-Bon was a man of genius. His very cat knew it, and forebore
      to whisk her tail in the presence of the man of genius. His large
      water-dog was acquainted with the fact, and upon the approach of his
      master, betrayed his sense of inferiority by a sanctity of deportment, a
      debasement of the ears, and a dropping of the lower jaw not altogether
      unworthy of a dog. It is, however, true that much of this habitual respect
      might have been attributed to the personal appearance of the
      metaphysician. A distinguished exterior will, I am constrained to say,
      have its way even with a beast; and I am willing to allow much in the
      outward man of the restaurateur calculated to impress the imagination of
      the quadruped. There is a peculiar majesty about the atmosphere of the
      little great—if I may be permitted so equivocal an expression—which
      mere physical bulk alone will be found at all times inefficient in
      creating. If, however, Bon-Bon was barely three feet in height, and if his
      head was diminutively small, still it was impossible to behold the
      rotundity of his stomach without a sense of magnificence nearly bordering
      upon the sublime. In its size both dogs and men must have seen a type of
      his acquirements—in its immensity a fitting habitation for his
      immortal soul.
    </p>
<p>
      I might here—if it so pleased me—dilate upon the matter of
      habiliment, and other mere circumstances of the external metaphysician. I
      might hint that the hair of our hero was worn short, combed smoothly over
      his forehead, and surmounted by a conical-shaped white flannel cap and
      tassels—that his pea-green jerkin was not after the fashion of those
      worn by the common class of restaurateurs at that day—that the
      sleeves were something fuller than the reigning costume permitted—that
      the cuffs were turned up, not as usual in that barbarous period, with
      cloth of the same quality and color as the garment, but faced in a more
      fanciful manner with the particolored velvet of Genoa—that his
      slippers were of a bright purple, curiously filigreed, and might have been
      manufactured in Japan, but for the exquisite pointing of the toes, and the
      brilliant tints of the binding and embroidery—that his breeches were
      of the yellow satin-like material called aimable—that his sky-blue
      cloak, resembling in form a dressing-wrapper, and richly bestudded all
      over with crimson devices, floated cavalierly upon his shoulders like a
      mist of the morning—and that his tout ensemble gave rise to the
      remarkable words of Benevenuta, the Improvisatrice of Florence, “that
      it was difficult to say whether Pierre Bon-Bon was indeed a bird of
      Paradise, or rather a very Paradise of perfection.” I might, I say,
      expatiate upon all these points if I pleased,—but I forbear, merely
      personal details may be left to historical novelists,—they are
      beneath the moral dignity of matter-of-fact.
    </p>
<p>
      I have said that “to enter the Cafe in the cul-de-sac Le Febvre was
      to enter the sanctum of a man of genius”—but then it was only
      the man of genius who could duly estimate the merits of the sanctum. A
      sign, consisting of a vast folio, swung before the entrance. On one side
      of the volume was painted a bottle; on the reverse a pate. On the back
      were visible in large letters Oeuvres de Bon-Bon. Thus was delicately
      shadowed forth the two-fold occupation of the proprietor.
    </p>
<p>
      Upon stepping over the threshold, the whole interior of the building
      presented itself to view. A long, low-pitched room, of antique
      construction, was indeed all the accommodation afforded by the Cafe. In a
      corner of the apartment stood the bed of the metaphysician. An army of
      curtains, together with a canopy a la Grecque, gave it an air at once
      classic and comfortable. In the corner diagonary opposite, appeared, in
      direct family communion, the properties of the kitchen and the
      bibliotheque. A dish of polemics stood peacefully upon the dresser. Here
      lay an ovenful of the latest ethics—there a kettle of dudecimo
      melanges. Volumes of German morality were hand and glove with the gridiron—a
      toasting-fork might be discovered by the side of Eusebius—Plato
      reclined at his ease in the frying-pan—and contemporary manuscripts
      were filed away upon the spit.
    </p>
<p>
      In other respects the Cafe de Bon-Bon might be said to differ little from
      the usual restaurants of the period. A fireplace yawned opposite the door.
      On the right of the fireplace an open cupboard displayed a formidable
      array of labelled bottles.
    </p>
<p>
      It was here, about twelve o’clock one night during the severe winter
      the comments of his neighbours upon his singular propensity—that
      Pierre Bon-Bon, I say, having turned them all out of his house, locked the
      door upon them with an oath, and betook himself in no very pacific mood to
      the comforts of a leather-bottomed arm-chair, and a fire of blazing
      fagots.
    </p>
<p>
      It was one of those terrific nights which are only met with once or twice
      during a century. It snowed fiercely, and the house tottered to its centre
      with the floods of wind that, rushing through the crannies in the wall,
      and pouring impetuously down the chimney, shook awfully the curtains of
      the philosopher’s bed, and disorganized the economy of his pate-pans
      and papers. The huge folio sign that swung without, exposed to the fury of
      the tempest, creaked ominously, and gave out a moaning sound from its
      stanchions of solid oak.
    </p>
<p>
      It was in no placid temper, I say, that the metaphysician drew up his
      chair to its customary station by the hearth. Many circumstances of a
      perplexing nature had occurred during the day, to disturb the serenity of
      his meditations. In attempting des oeufs a la Princesse, he had
      unfortunately perpetrated an omelette a la Reine; the discovery of a
      principle in ethics had been frustrated by the overturning of a stew; and
      last, not least, he had been thwarted in one of those admirable bargains
      which he at all times took such especial delight in bringing to a
      successful termination. But in the chafing of his mind at these
      unaccountable vicissitudes, there did not fail to be mingled some degree
      of that nervous anxiety which the fury of a boisterous night is so well
      calculated to produce. Whistling to his more immediate vicinity the large
      black water-dog we have spoken of before, and settling himself uneasily in
      his chair, he could not help casting a wary and unquiet eye toward those
      distant recesses of the apartment whose inexorable shadows not even the
      red firelight itself could more than partially succeed in overcoming.
      Having completed a scrutiny whose exact purpose was perhaps unintelligible
      to himself, he drew close to his seat a small table covered with books and
      papers, and soon became absorbed in the task of retouching a voluminous
      manuscript, intended for publication on the morrow.
    </p>
<p>
      He had been thus occupied for some minutes when “I am in no hurry,
      Monsieur Bon-Bon,” suddenly whispered a whining voice in the
      apartment.
    </p>
<p>
      “The devil!” ejaculated our hero, starting to his feet,
      overturning the table at his side, and staring around him in astonishment.
    </p>
<p>
      “Very true,” calmly replied the voice.
    </p>
<p>
      “Very true!—what is very true?—how came you here?”
      vociferated the metaphysician, as his eye fell upon something which lay
      stretched at full length upon the bed.
    </p>
<p>
      “I was saying,” said the intruder, without attending to the
      interrogatives,—“I was saying that I am not at all pushed for
      time—that the business upon which I took the liberty of calling, is
      of no pressing importance—in short, that I can very well wait until
      you have finished your Exposition.”
    </p>
<p>
      “My Exposition!—there now!—how do you know?—how
      came you to understand that I was writing an Exposition?—good God!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Hush!” replied the figure, in a shrill undertone; and,
      arising quickly from the bed, he made a single step toward our hero, while
      an iron lamp that depended over-head swung convulsively back from his
      approach.
    </p>
<p>
      The philosopher’s amazement did not prevent a narrow scrutiny of the
      stranger’s dress and appearance. The outlines of his figure,
      exceedingly lean, but much above the common height, were rendered minutely
      distinct, by means of a faded suit of black cloth which fitted tight to
      the skin, but was otherwise cut very much in the style of a century ago.
      These garments had evidently been intended for a much shorter person than
      their present owner. His ankles and wrists were left naked for several
      inches. In his shoes, however, a pair of very brilliant buckles gave the
      lie to the extreme poverty implied by the other portions of his dress. His
      head was bare, and entirely bald, with the exception of a hinder part,
      from which depended a queue of considerable length. A pair of green
      spectacles, with side glasses, protected his eyes from the influence of
      the light, and at the same time prevented our hero from ascertaining
      either their color or their conformation. About the entire person there
      was no evidence of a shirt, but a white cravat, of filthy appearance, was
      tied with extreme precision around the throat and the ends hanging down
      formally side by side gave (although I dare say unintentionally) the idea
      of an ecclesiastic. Indeed, many other points both in his appearance and
      demeanor might have very well sustained a conception of that nature. Over
      his left ear, he carried, after the fashion of a modern clerk, an
      instrument resembling the stylus of the ancients. In a breast-pocket of
      his coat appeared conspicuously a small black volume fastened with clasps
      of steel. This book, whether accidentally or not, was so turned outwardly
      from the person as to discover the words “Rituel Catholique”
      in white letters upon the back. His entire physiognomy was interestingly
      saturnine—even cadaverously pale. The forehead was lofty, and deeply
      furrowed with the ridges of contemplation. The corners of the mouth were
      drawn down into an expression of the most submissive humility. There was
      also a clasping of the hands, as he stepped toward our hero—a deep
      sigh—and altogether a look of such utter sanctity as could not have
      failed to be unequivocally preposessing. Every shadow of anger faded from
      the countenance of the metaphysician, as, having completed a satisfactory
      survey of his visiter’s person, he shook him cordially by the hand,
      and conducted him to a seat.
    </p>
<p>
      There would however be a radical error in attributing this instantaneous
      transition of feeling in the philosopher, to any one of those causes which
      might naturally be supposed to have had an influence. Indeed, Pierre
      Bon-Bon, from what I have been able to understand of his disposition, was
      of all men the least likely to be imposed upon by any speciousness of
      exterior deportment. It was impossible that so accurate an observer of men
      and things should have failed to discover, upon the moment, the real
      character of the personage who had thus intruded upon his hospitality. To
      say no more, the conformation of his visiter’s feet was sufficiently
      remarkable—he maintained lightly upon his head an inordinately tall
      hat—there was a tremulous swelling about the hinder part of his
      breeches—and the vibration of his coat tail was a palpable fact.
      Judge, then, with what feelings of satisfaction our hero found himself
      thrown thus at once into the society of a person for whom he had at all
      times entertained the most unqualified respect. He was, however, too much
      of the diplomatist to let escape him any intimation of his suspicions in
      regard to the true state of affairs. It was not his cue to appear at all
      conscious of the high honor he thus unexpectedly enjoyed; but, by leading
      his guest into the conversation, to elicit some important ethical ideas,
      which might, in obtaining a place in his contemplated publication,
      enlighten the human race, and at the same time immortalize himself—ideas
      which, I should have added, his visitor’s great age, and well-known
      proficiency in the science of morals, might very well have enabled him to
      afford.
    </p>
<p>
      Actuated by these enlightened views, our hero bade the gentleman sit down,
      while he himself took occasion to throw some fagots upon the fire, and
      place upon the now re-established table some bottles of Mousseux. Having
      quickly completed these operations, he drew his chair vis-a-vis to his
      companion’s, and waited until the latter should open the
      conversation. But plans even the most skilfully matured are often thwarted
      in the outset of their application—and the restaurateur found
      himself nonplussed by the very first words of his visiter’s speech.
    </p>
<p>
      “I see you know me, Bon-Bon,” said he; “ha! ha! ha!—he!
      he! he!—hi! hi! hi!—ho! ho! ho!—hu! hu! hu!”—and
      the devil, dropping at once the sanctity of his demeanor, opened to its
      fullest extent a mouth from ear to ear, so as to display a set of jagged
      and fang-like teeth, and, throwing back his head, laughed long, loudly,
      wickedly, and uproariously, while the black dog, crouching down upon his
      haunches, joined lustily in the chorus, and the tabby cat, flying off at a
      tangent, stood up on end, and shrieked in the farthest corner of the
      apartment.
    </p>
<p>
      Not so the philosopher; he was too much a man of the world either to laugh
      like the dog, or by shrieks to betray the indecorous trepidation of the
      cat. It must be confessed, he felt a little astonishment to see the white
      letters which formed the words “Rituel Catholique” on the book
      in his guest’s pocket, momently changing both their color and their
      import, and in a few seconds, in place of the original title the words
      Regitre des Condamnes blazed forth in characters of red. This startling
      circumstance, when Bon-Bon replied to his visiter’s remark, imparted
      to his manner an air of embarrassment which probably might, not otherwise
      have been observed.
    </p>
<p>
      “Why sir,” said the philosopher, “why sir, to speak
      sincerely—I I imagine—I have some faint—some very faint
      idea—of the remarkable honor-”
    </p>
<p>
      “Oh!—ah!—yes!—very well!” interrupted his
      Majesty; “say no more—I see how it is.” And hereupon,
      taking off his green spectacles, he wiped the glasses carefully with the
      sleeve of his coat, and deposited them in his pocket.
    </p>
<p>
      If Bon-Bon had been astonished at the incident of the book, his amazement
      was now much increased by the spectacle which here presented itself to
      view. In raising his eyes, with a strong feeling of curiosity to ascertain
      the color of his guest’s, he found them by no means black, as he had
      anticipated—nor gray, as might have been imagined—nor yet
      hazel nor blue—nor indeed yellow nor red—nor purple—nor
      white—nor green—nor any other color in the heavens above, or
      in the earth beneath, or in the waters under the earth. In short, Pierre
      Bon-Bon not only saw plainly that his Majesty had no eyes whatsoever, but
      could discover no indications of their having existed at any previous
      period—for the space where eyes should naturally have been was, I am
      constrained to say, simply a dead level of flesh.
    </p>
<p>
      It was not in the nature of the metaphysician to forbear making some
      inquiry into the sources of so strange a phenomenon, and the reply of his
      Majesty was at once prompt, dignified, and satisfactory.
    </p>
<p>
      “Eyes! my dear Bon-Bon—eyes! did you say?—oh!—ah!—I
      perceive! The ridiculous prints, eh, which are in, circulation, have given
      you a false idea of my personal appearance? Eyes!—true. Eyes, Pierre
      Bon-Bon, are very well in their proper place—that, you would say, is
      the head?—right—the head of a worm. To you, likewise, these
      optics are indispensable—yet I will convince you that my vision is
      more penetrating than your own. There is a cat I see in the corner—a
      pretty cat—look at her—observe her well. Now, Bon-Bon, do you
      behold the thoughts—the thoughts, I say,—the ideas—the
      reflections—which are being engendered in her pericranium? There it
      is, now—you do not! She is thinking we admire the length of her tail
      and the profundity of her mind. She has just concluded that I am the most
      distinguished of ecclesiastics, and that you are the most superficial of
      metaphysicians. Thus you see I am not altogether blind; but to one of my
      profession, the eyes you speak of would be merely an incumbrance, liable
      at any time to be put out by a toasting-iron, or a pitchfork. To you, I
      allow, these optical affairs are indispensable. Endeavor, Bon-Bon, to use
      them well;—my vision is the soul.”
    </p>
<p>
      Hereupon the guest helped himself to the wine upon the table, and pouring
      out a bumper for Bon-Bon, requested him to drink it without scruple, and
      make himself perfectly at home.
    </p>
<p>
      “A clever book that of yours, Pierre,” resumed his Majesty,
      tapping our friend knowingly upon the shoulder, as the latter put down his
      glass after a thorough compliance with his visiter’s injunction.
      “A clever book that of yours, upon my honor. It’s a work after
      my own heart. Your arrangement of the matter, I think, however, might be
      improved, and many of your notions remind me of Aristotle. That
      philosopher was one of my most intimate acquaintances. I liked him as much
      for his terrible ill temper, as for his happy knack at making a blunder.
      There is only one solid truth in all that he has written, and for that I
      gave him the hint out of pure compassion for his absurdity. I suppose,
      Pierre Bon-Bon, you very well know to what divine moral truth I am
      alluding?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Cannot say that I—”
    </p>
<p>
      “Indeed!—why it was I who told Aristotle that by sneezing, men
      expelled superfluous ideas through the proboscis.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Which is—hiccup!—undoubtedly the case,” said the
      metaphysician, while he poured out for himself another bumper of Mousseux,
      and offered his snuff-box to the fingers of his visiter.
    </p>
<p>
      “There was Plato, too,” continued his Majesty, modestly
      declining the snuff-box and the compliment it implied—“there
      was Plato, too, for whom I, at one time, felt all the affection of a
      friend. You knew Plato, Bon-Bon?—ah, no, I beg a thousand pardons.
      He met me at Athens, one day, in the Parthenon, and told me he was
      distressed for an idea. I bade him write, down that o nous estin aulos. He
      said that he would do so, and went home, while I stepped over to the
      pyramids. But my conscience smote me for having uttered a truth, even to
      aid a friend, and hastening back to Athens, I arrived behind the
      philosopher’s chair as he was inditing the ‘aulos.’”
    </p>
<p>
      “Giving the lambda a fillip with my finger, I turned it upside down.
      So the sentence now read ‘o nous estin augos’, and is, you
      perceive, the fundamental doctrines in his metaphysics.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Were you ever at Rome?” asked the restaurateur, as he
      finished his second bottle of Mousseux, and drew from the closet a larger
      supply of Chambertin.
    </p>
<p>
      “But once, Monsieur Bon-Bon, but once. There was a time,” said
      the devil, as if reciting some passage from a book—“there was
      a time when occurred an anarchy of five years, during which the republic,
      bereft of all its officers, had no magistracy besides the tribunes of the
      people, and these were not legally vested with any degree of executive
      power—at that time, Monsieur Bon-Bon—at that time only I was
      in Rome, and I have no earthly acquaintance, consequently, with any of its
      philosophy.” (*2)
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     {*2} Ils ecrivaient sur la Philosophie (<i>Cicero, Lucretius,
     Seneca</i>) mais c’etait la Philosophie Grecque.—<i>Condorcet</i>.
</pre>
<p>
      “What do you think of—what do you think of—hiccup!—Epicurus?”
    </p>
<p>
      “What do I think of whom?” said the devil, in astonishment,
      “you cannot surely mean to find any fault with Epicurus! What do I
      think of Epicurus! Do you mean me, sir?—I am Epicurus! I am the same
      philosopher who wrote each of the three hundred treatises commemorated by
      Diogenes Laertes.”
    </p>
<p>
      “That’s a lie!” said the metaphysician, for the wine had
      gotten a little into his head.
    </p>
<p>
      “Very well!—very well, sir!—very well, indeed, sir!”
      said his Majesty, apparently much flattered.
    </p>
<p>
      “That’s a lie!” repeated the restaurateur, dogmatically;
      “that’s a—hiccup!—a lie!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Well, well, have it your own way!” said the devil,
      pacifically, and Bon-Bon, having beaten his Majesty at argument, thought
      it his duty to conclude a second bottle of Chambertin.
    </p>
<p>
      “As I was saying,” resumed the visiter—“as I was
      observing a little while ago, there are some very outre notions in that
      book of yours Monsieur Bon-Bon. What, for instance, do you mean by all
      that humbug about the soul? Pray, sir, what is the soul?”
    </p>
<p>
      “The—hiccup!—soul,” replied the metaphysician,
      referring to his MS., “is undoubtedly-”
    </p>
<p>
      “No, sir!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Indubitably-”
    </p>
<p>
      “No, sir!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Indisputably-”
    </p>
<p>
      “No, sir!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Evidently-”
    </p>
<p>
      “No, sir!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Incontrovertibly-”
    </p>
<p>
      “No, sir!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Hiccup!—”
    </p>
<p>
      “No, sir!”
    </p>
<p>
      “And beyond all question, a-”
    </p>
<p>
      “No sir, the soul is no such thing!” (Here the philosopher,
      looking daggers, took occasion to make an end, upon the spot, of his third
      bottle of Chambertin.)
    </p>
<p>
      “Then—hic-cup!—pray, sir—what—what is it?”
    </p>
<p>
      “That is neither here nor there, Monsieur Bon-Bon,” replied
      his Majesty, musingly. “I have tasted—that is to say, I have
      known some very bad souls, and some too—pretty good ones.”
      Here he smacked his lips, and, having unconsciously let fall his hand upon
      the volume in his pocket, was seized with a violent fit of sneezing.
    </p>
<p>
      He continued.
    </p>
<p>
      “There was the soul of Cratinus—passable: Aristophanes—racy:
      Plato—exquisite—not your Plato, but Plato the comic poet; your
      Plato would have turned the stomach of Cerberus—faugh! Then let me
      see! there were Naevius, and Andronicus, and Plautus, and Terentius. Then
      there were Lucilius, and Catullus, and Naso, and Quintus Flaccus,—dear
      Quinty! as I called him when he sung a seculare for my amusement, while I
      toasted him, in pure good humor, on a fork. But they want flavor, these
      Romans. One fat Greek is worth a dozen of them, and besides will keep,
      which cannot be said of a Quirite.—Let us taste your Sauterne.”
    </p>
<p>
      Bon-Bon had by this time made up his mind to nil admirari and endeavored
      to hand down the bottles in question. He was, however, conscious of a
      strange sound in the room like the wagging of a tail. Of this, although
      extremely indecent in his Majesty, the philosopher took no notice:—simply
      kicking the dog, and requesting him to be quiet. The visiter continued:
    </p>
<p>
      “I found that Horace tasted very much like Aristotle;—you know
      I am fond of variety. Terentius I could not have told from Menander. Naso,
      to my astonishment, was Nicander in disguise. Virgilius had a strong twang
      of Theocritus. Martial put me much in mind of Archilochus—and Titus
      Livius was positively Polybius and none other.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Hic-cup!” here replied Bon-Bon, and his majesty proceeded:
    </p>
<p>
      “But if I have a penchant, Monsieur Bon-Bon—if I have a
      penchant, it is for a philosopher. Yet, let me tell you, sir, it is not
      every dev—I mean it is not every gentleman who knows how to choose a
      philosopher. Long ones are not good; and the best, if not carefully
      shelled, are apt to be a little rancid on account of the gall!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Shelled!”
    </p>
<p>
      “I mean taken out of the carcass.”
    </p>
<p>
      “What do you think of a—hic-cup!—physician?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Don’t mention them!—ugh! ugh! ugh!” (Here his
      Majesty retched violently.) “I never tasted but one—that
      rascal Hippocrates!—smelt of asafoetida—ugh! ugh! ugh!—caught
      a wretched cold washing him in the Styx—and after all he gave me the
      cholera morbus.”
    </p>
<p>
      “The—hiccup—wretch!” ejaculated Bon-Bon, “the—hic-cup!—absorption
      of a pill-box!”—and the philosopher dropped a tear.
    </p>
<p>
      “After all,” continued the visiter, “after all, if a dev—if
      a gentleman wishes to live, he must have more talents than one or two; and
      with us a fat face is an evidence of diplomacy.”
    </p>
<p>
      “How so?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Why, we are sometimes exceedingly pushed for provisions. You must
      know that, in a climate so sultry as mine, it is frequently impossible to
      keep a spirit alive for more than two or three hours; and after death,
      unless pickled immediately (and a pickled spirit is not good), they will—smell—you
      understand, eh? Putrefaction is always to be apprehended when the souls
      are consigned to us in the usual way.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Hiccup!—hiccup!—good God! how do you manage?”
    </p>
<p>
      Here the iron lamp commenced swinging with redoubled violence, and the
      devil half started from his seat;—however, with a slight sigh, he
      recovered his composure, merely saying to our hero in a low tone: “I
      tell you what, Pierre Bon-Bon, we must have no more swearing.”
    </p>
<p>
      The host swallowed another bumper, by way of denoting thorough
      comprehension and acquiescence, and the visiter continued.
    </p>
<p>
      “Why, there are several ways of managing. The most of us starve:
      some put up with the pickle: for my part I purchase my spirits vivente
      corpore, in which case I find they keep very well.”
    </p>
<p>
      “But the body!—hiccup!—the body!”
    </p>
<p>
      “The body, the body—well, what of the body?—oh! ah! I
      perceive. Why, sir, the body is not at all affected by the transaction. I
      have made innumerable purchases of the kind in my day, and the parties
      never experienced any inconvenience. There were Cain and Nimrod, and Nero,
      and Caligula, and Dionysius, and Pisistratus, and—and a thousand
      others, who never knew what it was to have a soul during the latter part
      of their lives; yet, sir, these men adorned society. Why possession of his
      faculties, mental and corporeal? Who writes a keener epigram? Who reasons
      more wittily? Who—but stay! I have his agreement in my pocket-book.”
    </p>
<p>
      Thus saying, he produced a red leather wallet, and took from it a number
      of papers. Upon some of these Bon-Bon caught a glimpse of the letters
      Machi—Maza—Robesp—with the words Caligula, George,
      Elizabeth. His Majesty selected a narrow slip of parchment, and from it
      read aloud the following words:
    </p>
<p>
      “In consideration of certain mental endowments which it is
      unnecessary to specify, and in further consideration of one thousand louis
      d’or, I being aged one year and one month, do hereby make over to
      the bearer of this agreement all my right, title, and appurtenance in the
      shadow called my soul. (Signed) A....” {*4} (Here His Majesty
      repeated a name which I did not feel justified in indicating more
      unequivocally.)
    </p>
<p>
      {*4} Quere-Arouet?
    </p>
<p>
      “A clever fellow that,” resumed he; “but like you,
      Monsieur Bon-Bon, he was mistaken about the soul. The soul a shadow,
      truly! The soul a shadow; Ha! ha! ha!—he! he! he!—hu! hu! hu!
      Only think of a fricasseed shadow!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Only think—hiccup!—of a fricasseed shadow!”
      exclaimed our hero, whose faculties were becoming much illuminated by the
      profundity of his Majesty’s discourse.
    </p>
<p>
      “Only think of a hiccup!—fricasseed shadow!! Now, damme!—hiccup!—humph!
      If I would have been such a—hiccup!—nincompoop! My soul, Mr.—humph!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Your soul, Monsieur Bon-Bon?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Yes, sir—hiccup!—my soul is-”
    </p>
<p>
      “What, sir?”
    </p>
<p>
      “No shadow, damme!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Did you mean to say-”
    </p>
<p>
      “Yes, sir, my soul is—hiccup!—humph!—yes, sir.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Did you not intend to assert-”
    </p>
<p>
      “My soul is—hiccup!—peculiarly qualified for—hiccup!—a-”
    </p>
<p>
      “What, sir?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Stew.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Ha!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Soufflee.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Eh!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Fricassee.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Indeed!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Ragout and fricandeau—and see here, my good fellow! I’ll
      let you have it—hiccup!—a bargain.” Here the philosopher
      slapped his Majesty upon the back.
    </p>
<p>
      “Couldn’t think of such a thing,” said the latter
      calmly, at the same time rising from his seat. The metaphysician stared.
    </p>
<p>
      “Am supplied at present,” said his Majesty.
    </p>
<p>
      “Hiccup—e-h?” said the philosopher.
    </p>
<p>
      “Have no funds on hand.”
    </p>
<p>
      “What?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Besides, very unhandsome in me—”
    </p>
<p>
      “Sir!”
    </p>
<p>
      “To take advantage of-”
    </p>
<p>
      “Hiccup!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Your present disgusting and ungentlemanly situation.”
    </p>
<p>
      Here the visiter bowed and withdrew—in what manner could not
      precisely be ascertained—but in a well-concerted effort to discharge
      a bottle at “the villain,” the slender chain was severed that
      depended from the ceiling, and the metaphysician prostrated by the
      downfall of the lamp.
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0009">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      SOME WORDS WITH A MUMMY.
    </h2>
<p>
      THE <i>symposium</i> of the preceding evening had been a little too much
      for my nerves. I had a wretched headache, and was desperately drowsy.
      Instead of going out therefore to spend the evening as I had proposed, it
      occurred to me that I could not do a wiser thing than just eat a mouthful
      of supper and go immediately to bed.
    </p>
<p>
      A light supper of course. I am exceedingly fond of Welsh rabbit. More than
      a pound at once, however, may not at all times be advisable. Still, there
      can be no material objection to two. And really between two and three,
      there is merely a single unit of difference. I ventured, perhaps, upon
      four. My wife will have it five;—but, clearly, she has confounded
      two very distinct affairs. The abstract number, five, I am willing to
      admit; but, concretely, it has reference to bottles of Brown Stout,
      without which, in the way of condiment, Welsh rabbit is to be eschewed.
    </p>
<p>
      Having thus concluded a frugal meal, and donned my night-cap, with the
      serene hope of enjoying it till noon the next day, I placed my head upon
      the pillow, and, through the aid of a capital conscience, fell into a
      profound slumber forthwith.
    </p>
<p>
      But when were the hopes of humanity fulfilled? I could not have completed
      my third snore when there came a furious ringing at the street-door bell,
      and then an impatient thumping at the knocker, which awakened me at once.
      In a minute afterward, and while I was still rubbing my eyes, my wife
      thrust in my face a note, from my old friend, Doctor Ponnonner. It ran
      thus:
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
      “Come to me, by all means, my dear good friend, as soon as you
 receive this. Come and help us to rejoice. At last, by long persevering
 diplomacy, I have gained the assent of the Directors of the City Museum,
 to my examination of the Mummy—you know the one I mean. I have
 permission to unswathe it and open it, if desirable. A few friends only
 will be present—you, of course. The Mummy is now at my house, and we
 shall begin to unroll it at eleven to-night.

           “Yours, ever,

                   PONNONNER.
</pre>
<p>
      By the time I had reached the “Ponnonner,” it struck me that I
      was as wide awake as a man need be. I leaped out of bed in an ecstacy,
      overthrowing all in my way; dressed myself with a rapidity truly
      marvellous; and set off, at the top of my speed, for the doctor’s.
    </p>
<p>
      There I found a very eager company assembled. They had been awaiting me
      with much impatience; the Mummy was extended upon the dining-table; and
      the moment I entered its examination was commenced.
    </p>
<p>
      It was one of a pair brought, several years previously, by Captain Arthur
      Sabretash, a cousin of Ponnonner’s from a tomb near Eleithias, in
      the Lybian mountains, a considerable distance above Thebes on the Nile.
      The grottoes at this point, although less magnificent than the Theban
      sepulchres, are of higher interest, on account of affording more numerous
      illustrations of the private life of the Egyptians. The chamber from which
      our specimen was taken, was said to be very rich in such illustrations;
      the walls being completely covered with fresco paintings and bas-reliefs,
      while statues, vases, and Mosaic work of rich patterns, indicated the vast
      wealth of the deceased.
    </p>
<p>
      The treasure had been deposited in the Museum precisely in the same
      condition in which Captain Sabretash had found it;—that is to say,
      the coffin had not been disturbed. For eight years it had thus stood,
      subject only externally to public inspection. We had now, therefore, the
      complete Mummy at our disposal; and to those who are aware how very rarely
      the unransacked antique reaches our shores, it will be evident, at once
      that we had great reason to congratulate ourselves upon our good fortune.
    </p>
<p>
      Approaching the table, I saw on it a large box, or case, nearly seven feet
      long, and perhaps three feet wide, by two feet and a half deep. It was
      oblong—not coffin-shaped. The material was at first supposed to be
      the wood of the sycamore (<i>platanus</i>), but, upon cutting into it, we
      found it to be pasteboard, or, more properly, <i>papier mache</i>,
      composed of papyrus. It was thickly ornamented with paintings,
      representing funeral scenes, and other mournful subjects—interspersed
      among which, in every variety of position, were certain series of
      hieroglyphical characters, intended, no doubt, for the name of the
      departed. By good luck, Mr. Gliddon formed one of our party; and he had no
      difficulty in translating the letters, which were simply phonetic, and
      represented the word <i>Allamistakeo</i>.
    </p>
<p>
      We had some difficulty in getting this case open without injury; but
      having at length accomplished the task, we came to a second,
      coffin-shaped, and very considerably less in size than the exterior one,
      but resembling it precisely in every other respect. The interval between
      the two was filled with resin, which had, in some degree, defaced the
      colors of the interior box.
    </p>
<p>
      Upon opening this latter (which we did quite easily), we arrived at a
      third case, also coffin-shaped, and varying from the second one in no
      particular, except in that of its material, which was cedar, and still
      emitted the peculiar and highly aromatic odor of that wood. Between the
      second and the third case there was no interval—the one fitting
      accurately within the other.
    </p>
<p>
      Removing the third case, we discovered and took out the body itself. We
      had expected to find it, as usual, enveloped in frequent rolls, or
      bandages, of linen; but, in place of these, we found a sort of sheath,
      made of papyrus, and coated with a layer of plaster, thickly gilt and
      painted. The paintings represented subjects connected with the various
      supposed duties of the soul, and its presentation to different divinities,
      with numerous identical human figures, intended, very probably, as
      portraits of the persons embalmed. Extending from head to foot was a
      columnar, or perpendicular, inscription, in phonetic hieroglyphics, giving
      again his name and titles, and the names and titles of his relations.
    </p>
<p>
      Around the neck thus ensheathed, was a collar of cylindrical glass beads,
      diverse in color, and so arranged as to form images of deities, of the
      scarabaeus, etc, with the winged globe. Around the small of the waist was
      a similar collar or belt.
    </p>
<p>
      Stripping off the papyrus, we found the flesh in excellent preservation,
      with no perceptible odor. The color was reddish. The skin was hard,
      smooth, and glossy. The teeth and hair were in good condition. The eyes
      (it seemed) had been removed, and glass ones substituted, which were very
      beautiful and wonderfully life-like, with the exception of somewhat too
      determined a stare. The fingers and the nails were brilliantly gilded.
    </p>
<p>
      Mr. Gliddon was of opinion, from the redness of the epidermis, that the
      embalmment had been effected altogether by asphaltum; but, on scraping the
      surface with a steel instrument, and throwing into the fire some of the
      powder thus obtained, the flavor of camphor and other sweet-scented gums
      became apparent.
    </p>
<p>
      We searched the corpse very carefully for the usual openings through which
      the entrails are extracted, but, to our surprise, we could discover none.
      No member of the party was at that period aware that entire or unopened
      mummies are not infrequently met. The brain it was customary to withdraw
      through the nose; the intestines through an incision in the side; the body
      was then shaved, washed, and salted; then laid aside for several weeks,
      when the operation of embalming, properly so called, began.
    </p>
<p>
      As no trace of an opening could be found, Doctor Ponnonner was preparing
      his instruments for dissection, when I observed that it was then past two
      o’clock. Hereupon it was agreed to postpone the internal examination
      until the next evening; and we were about to separate for the present,
      when some one suggested an experiment or two with the Voltaic pile.
    </p>
<p>
      The application of electricity to a mummy three or four thousand years old
      at the least, was an idea, if not very sage, still sufficiently original,
      and we all caught it at once. About one-tenth in earnest and nine-tenths
      in jest, we arranged a battery in the Doctor’s study, and conveyed
      thither the Egyptian.
    </p>
<p>
      It was only after much trouble that we succeeded in laying bare some
      portions of the temporal muscle which appeared of less stony rigidity than
      other parts of the frame, but which, as we had anticipated, of course,
      gave no indication of galvanic susceptibility when brought in contact with
      the wire. This, the first trial, indeed, seemed decisive, and, with a
      hearty laugh at our own absurdity, we were bidding each other good night,
      when my eyes, happening to fall upon those of the Mummy, were there
      immediately riveted in amazement. My brief glance, in fact, had sufficed
      to assure me that the orbs which we had all supposed to be glass, and
      which were originally noticeable for a certain wild stare, were now so far
      covered by the lids, that only a small portion of the <i>tunica albuginea</i>
      remained visible.
    </p>
<p>
      With a shout I called attention to the fact, and it became immediately
      obvious to all.
    </p>
<p>
      I cannot say that I was alarmed at the phenomenon, because “alarmed”
      is, in my case, not exactly the word. It is possible, however, that, but
      for the Brown Stout, I might have been a little nervous. As for the rest
      of the company, they really made no attempt at concealing the downright
      fright which possessed them. Doctor Ponnonner was a man to be pitied. Mr.
      Gliddon, by some peculiar process, rendered himself invisible. Mr. Silk
      Buckingham, I fancy, will scarcely be so bold as to deny that he made his
      way, upon all fours, under the table.
    </p>
<p>
      After the first shock of astonishment, however, we resolved, as a matter
      of course, upon further experiment forthwith. Our operations were now
      directed against the great toe of the right foot. We made an incision over
      the outside of the exterior <i>os sesamoideum pollicis pedis,</i> and thus
      got at the root of the abductor muscle. Readjusting the battery, we now
      applied the fluid to the bisected nerves—when, with a movement of
      exceeding life-likeness, the Mummy first drew up its right knee so as to
      bring it nearly in contact with the abdomen, and then, straightening the
      limb with inconceivable force, bestowed a kick upon Doctor Ponnonner,
      which had the effect of discharging that gentleman, like an arrow from a
      catapult, through a window into the street below.
    </p>
<p>
      We rushed out <i>en masse</i> to bring in the mangled remains of the
      victim, but had the happiness to meet him upon the staircase, coming up in
      an unaccountable hurry, brimful of the most ardent philosophy, and more
      than ever impressed with the necessity of prosecuting our experiment with
      vigor and with zeal.
    </p>
<p>
      It was by his advice, accordingly, that we made, upon the spot, a profound
      incision into the tip of the subject’s nose, while the Doctor
      himself, laying violent hands upon it, pulled it into vehement contact
      with the wire.
    </p>
<p>
      Morally and physically—figuratively and literally—was the
      effect electric. In the first place, the corpse opened its eyes and winked
      very rapidly for several minutes, as does Mr. Barnes in the pantomime, in
      the second place, it sneezed; in the third, it sat upon end; in the
      fourth, it shook its fist in Doctor Ponnonner’s face; in the fifth,
      turning to Messieurs Gliddon and Buckingham, it addressed them, in very
      capital Egyptian, thus:
    </p>
<p>
      “I must say, gentlemen, that I am as much surprised as I am
      mortified at your behavior. Of Doctor Ponnonner nothing better was to be
      expected. He is a poor little fat fool who knows no better. I pity and
      forgive him. But you, Mr. Gliddon—and you, Silk—who have
      travelled and resided in Egypt until one might imagine you to the manner
      born—you, I say who have been so much among us that you speak
      Egyptian fully as well, I think, as you write your mother tongue—you,
      whom I have always been led to regard as the firm friend of the mummies—I
      really did anticipate more gentlemanly conduct from you. What am I to
      think of your standing quietly by and seeing me thus unhandsomely used?
      What am I to suppose by your permitting Tom, Dick, and Harry to strip me
      of my coffins, and my clothes, in this wretchedly cold climate? In what
      light (to come to the point) am I to regard your aiding and abetting that
      miserable little villain, Doctor Ponnonner, in pulling me by the nose?”
    </p>
<p>
      It will be taken for granted, no doubt, that upon hearing this speech
      under the circumstances, we all either made for the door, or fell into
      violent hysterics, or went off in a general swoon. One of these three
      things was, I say, to be expected. Indeed each and all of these lines of
      conduct might have been very plausibly pursued. And, upon my word, I am at
      a loss to know how or why it was that we pursued neither the one nor the
      other. But, perhaps, the true reason is to be sought in the spirit of the
      age, which proceeds by the rule of contraries altogether, and is now
      usually admitted as the solution of every thing in the way of paradox and
      impossibility. Or, perhaps, after all, it was only the Mummy’s
      exceedingly natural and matter-of-course air that divested his words of
      the terrible. However this may be, the facts are clear, and no member of
      our party betrayed any very particular trepidation, or seemed to consider
      that any thing had gone very especially wrong.
    </p>
<p>
      For my part I was convinced it was all right, and merely stepped aside,
      out of the range of the Egyptian’s fist. Doctor Ponnonner thrust his
      hands into his breeches’ pockets, looked hard at the Mummy, and grew
      excessively red in the face. Mr. Glidden stroked his whiskers and drew up
      the collar of his shirt. Mr. Buckingham hung down his head, and put his
      right thumb into the left corner of his mouth.
    </p>
<p>
      The Egyptian regarded him with a severe countenance for some minutes and
      at length, with a sneer, said:
    </p>
<p>
      “Why don’t you speak, Mr. Buckingham? Did you hear what I
      asked you, or not? Do take your thumb out of your mouth!”
    </p>
<p>
      Mr. Buckingham, hereupon, gave a slight start, took his right thumb out of
      the left corner of his mouth, and, by way of indemnification inserted his
      left thumb in the right corner of the aperture above-mentioned.
    </p>
<p>
      Not being able to get an answer from Mr. B., the figure turned peevishly
      to Mr. Gliddon, and, in a peremptory tone, demanded in general terms what
      we all meant.
    </p>
<p>
      Mr. Gliddon replied at great length, in phonetics; and but for the
      deficiency of American printing-offices in hieroglyphical type, it would
      afford me much pleasure to record here, in the original, the whole of his
      very excellent speech.
    </p>
<p>
      I may as well take this occasion to remark, that all the subsequent
      conversation in which the Mummy took a part, was carried on in primitive
      Egyptian, through the medium (so far as concerned myself and other
      untravelled members of the company)—through the medium, I say, of
      Messieurs Gliddon and Buckingham, as interpreters. These gentlemen spoke
      the mother tongue of the Mummy with inimitable fluency and grace; but I
      could not help observing that (owing, no doubt, to the introduction of
      images entirely modern, and, of course, entirely novel to the stranger)
      the two travellers were reduced, occasionally, to the employment of
      sensible forms for the purpose of conveying a particular meaning. Mr.
      Gliddon, at one period, for example, could not make the Egyptian
      comprehend the term “politics,” until he sketched upon the
      wall, with a bit of charcoal a little carbuncle-nosed gentleman, out at
      elbows, standing upon a stump, with his left leg drawn back, right arm
      thrown forward, with his fist shut, the eyes rolled up toward Heaven, and
      the mouth open at an angle of ninety degrees. Just in the same way Mr.
      Buckingham failed to convey the absolutely modern idea “wig,”
      until (at Doctor Ponnonner’s suggestion) he grew very pale in the
      face, and consented to take off his own.
    </p>
<p>
      It will be readily understood that Mr. Gliddon’s discourse turned
      chiefly upon the vast benefits accruing to science from the unrolling and
      disembowelling of mummies; apologizing, upon this score, for any
      disturbance that might have been occasioned him, in particular, the
      individual Mummy called Allamistakeo; and concluding with a mere hint (for
      it could scarcely be considered more) that, as these little matters were
      now explained, it might be as well to proceed with the investigation
      intended. Here Doctor Ponnonner made ready his instruments.
    </p>
<p>
      In regard to the latter suggestions of the orator, it appears that
      Allamistakeo had certain scruples of conscience, the nature of which I did
      not distinctly learn; but he expressed himself satisfied with the
      apologies tendered, and, getting down from the table, shook hands with the
      company all round.
    </p>
<p>
      When this ceremony was at an end, we immediately busied ourselves in
      repairing the damages which our subject had sustained from the scalpel. We
      sewed up the wound in his temple, bandaged his foot, and applied a square
      inch of black plaster to the tip of his nose.
    </p>
<p>
      It was now observed that the Count (this was the title, it seems, of
      Allamistakeo) had a slight fit of shivering—no doubt from the cold.
      The Doctor immediately repaired to his wardrobe, and soon returned with a
      black dress coat, made in Jennings’ best manner, a pair of sky-blue
      plaid pantaloons with straps, a pink gingham chemise, a flapped vest of
      brocade, a white sack overcoat, a walking cane with a hook, a hat with no
      brim, patent-leather boots, straw-colored kid gloves, an eye-glass, a pair
      of whiskers, and a waterfall cravat. Owing to the disparity of size
      between the Count and the doctor (the proportion being as two to one),
      there was some little difficulty in adjusting these habiliments upon the
      person of the Egyptian; but when all was arranged, he might have been said
      to be dressed. Mr. Gliddon, therefore, gave him his arm, and led him to a
      comfortable chair by the fire, while the Doctor rang the bell upon the
      spot and ordered a supply of cigars and wine.
    </p>
<p>
      The conversation soon grew animated. Much curiosity was, of course,
      expressed in regard to the somewhat remarkable fact of Allamistakeo’s
      still remaining alive.
    </p>
<p>
      “I should have thought,” observed Mr. Buckingham, “that
      it is high time you were dead.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Why,” replied the Count, very much astonished, “I am
      little more than seven hundred years old! My father lived a thousand, and
      was by no means in his dotage when he died.”
    </p>
<p>
      Here ensued a brisk series of questions and computations, by means of
      which it became evident that the antiquity of the Mummy had been grossly
      misjudged. It had been five thousand and fifty years and some months since
      he had been consigned to the catacombs at Eleithias.
    </p>
<p>
      “But my remark,” resumed Mr. Buckingham, “had no
      reference to your age at the period of interment (I am willing to grant,
      in fact, that you are still a young man), and my illusion was to the
      immensity of time during which, by your own showing, you must have been
      done up in asphaltum.”
    </p>
<p>
      “In what?” said the Count.
    </p>
<p>
      “In asphaltum,” persisted Mr. B.
    </p>
<p>
      “Ah, yes; I have some faint notion of what you mean; it might be
      made to answer, no doubt—but in my time we employed scarcely any
      thing else than the Bichloride of Mercury.”
    </p>
<p>
      “But what we are especially at a loss to understand,” said
      Doctor Ponnonner, “is how it happens that, having been dead and
      buried in Egypt five thousand years ago, you are here to-day all alive and
      looking so delightfully well.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Had I been, as you say, dead,” replied the Count, “it
      is more than probable that dead, I should still be; for I perceive you are
      yet in the infancy of Calvanism, and cannot accomplish with it what was a
      common thing among us in the old days. But the fact is, I fell into
      catalepsy, and it was considered by my best friends that I was either dead
      or should be; they accordingly embalmed me at once—I presume you are
      aware of the chief principle of the embalming process?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Why not altogether.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Why, I perceive—a deplorable condition of ignorance! Well I
      cannot enter into details just now: but it is necessary to explain that to
      embalm (properly speaking), in Egypt, was to arrest indefinitely all the
      animal functions subjected to the process. I use the word ‘animal’
      in its widest sense, as including the physical not more than the moral and
      vital being. I repeat that the leading principle of embalmment consisted,
      with us, in the immediately arresting, and holding in perpetual abeyance,
      all the animal functions subjected to the process. To be brief, in
      whatever condition the individual was, at the period of embalmment, in
      that condition he remained. Now, as it is my good fortune to be of the
      blood of the Scarabaeus, I was embalmed alive, as you see me at present.”
    </p>
<p>
      “The blood of the Scarabaeus!” exclaimed Doctor Ponnonner.
    </p>
<p>
      “Yes. The Scarabaeus was the insignium or the ‘arms,’ of
      a very distinguished and very rare patrician family. To be ‘of the
      blood of the Scarabaeus,’ is merely to be one of that family of
      which the Scarabaeus is the insignium. I speak figuratively.”
    </p>
<p>
      “But what has this to do with you being alive?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Why, it is the general custom in Egypt to deprive a corpse, before
      embalmment, of its bowels and brains; the race of the Scarabaei alone did
      not coincide with the custom. Had I not been a Scarabeus, therefore, I
      should have been without bowels and brains; and without either it is
      inconvenient to live.”
    </p>
<p>
      “I perceive that,” said Mr. Buckingham, “and I presume
      that all the entire mummies that come to hand are of the race of
      Scarabaei.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Beyond doubt.”
    </p>
<p>
      “I thought,” said Mr. Gliddon, very meekly, “that the
      Scarabaeus was one of the Egyptian gods.”
    </p>
<p>
      “One of the Egyptian <i>what?”</i> exclaimed the Mummy,
      starting to its feet.
    </p>
<p>
      “Gods!” repeated the traveller.
    </p>
<p>
      “Mr. Gliddon, I really am astonished to hear you talk in this style,”
      said the Count, resuming his chair. “No nation upon the face of the
      earth has ever acknowledged more than one god. The Scarabaeus, the Ibis,
      etc., were with us (as similar creatures have been with others) the
      symbols, or media, through which we offered worship to the Creator too
      august to be more directly approached.”
    </p>
<p>
      There was here a pause. At length the colloquy was renewed by Doctor
      Ponnonner.
    </p>
<p>
      “It is not improbable, then, from what you have explained,”
      said he, “that among the catacombs near the Nile there may exist
      other mummies of the Scarabaeus tribe, in a condition of vitality?”
    </p>
<p>
      “There can be no question of it,” replied the Count; “all
      the Scarabaei embalmed accidentally while alive, are alive now. Even some
      of those purposely so embalmed, may have been overlooked by their
      executors, and still remain in the tomb.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Will you be kind enough to explain,” I said, “what you
      mean by ‘purposely so embalmed’?”
    </p>
<p>
      “With great pleasure!” answered the Mummy, after surveying me
      leisurely through his eye-glass—for it was the first time I had
      ventured to address him a direct question.
    </p>
<p>
      “With great pleasure,” he said. “The usual duration of
      man’s life, in my time, was about eight hundred years. Few men died,
      unless by most extraordinary accident, before the age of six hundred; few
      lived longer than a decade of centuries; but eight were considered the
      natural term. After the discovery of the embalming principle, as I have
      already described it to you, it occurred to our philosophers that a
      laudable curiosity might be gratified, and, at the same time, the
      interests of science much advanced, by living this natural term in
      installments. In the case of history, indeed, experience demonstrated that
      something of this kind was indispensable. An historian, for example,
      having attained the age of five hundred, would write a book with great
      labor and then get himself carefully embalmed; leaving instructions to his
      executors pro tem., that they should cause him to be revivified after the
      lapse of a certain period—say five or six hundred years. Resuming
      existence at the expiration of this time, he would invariably find his
      great work converted into a species of hap-hazard note-book—that is
      to say, into a kind of literary arena for the conflicting guesses,
      riddles, and personal squabbles of whole herds of exasperated
      commentators. These guesses, etc., which passed under the name of
      annotations, or emendations, were found so completely to have enveloped,
      distorted, and overwhelmed the text, that the author had to go about with
      a lantern to discover his own book. When discovered, it was never worth
      the trouble of the search. After re-writing it throughout, it was regarded
      as the bounden duty of the historian to set himself to work immediately in
      correcting, from his own private knowledge and experience, the traditions
      of the day concerning the epoch at which he had originally lived. Now this
      process of re-scription and personal rectification, pursued by various
      individual sages from time to time, had the effect of preventing our
      history from degenerating into absolute fable.”
    </p>
<p>
      “I beg your pardon,” said Doctor Ponnonner at this point,
      laying his hand gently upon the arm of the Egyptian—“I beg
      your pardon, sir, but may I presume to interrupt you for one moment?”
    </p>
<p>
      “By all means, sir,” replied the Count, drawing up.
    </p>
<p>
      “I merely wished to ask you a question,” said the Doctor.
      “You mentioned the historian’s personal correction of
      traditions respecting his own epoch. Pray, sir, upon an average what
      proportion of these Kabbala were usually found to be right?”
    </p>
<p>
      “The Kabbala, as you properly term them, sir, were generally
      discovered to be precisely on a par with the facts recorded in the
      un-re-written histories themselves;—that is to say, not one
      individual iota of either was ever known, under any circumstances, to be
      not totally and radically wrong.”
    </p>
<p>
      “But since it is quite clear,” resumed the Doctor, “that
      at least five thousand years have elapsed since your entombment, I take it
      for granted that your histories at that period, if not your traditions
      were sufficiently explicit on that one topic of universal interest, the
      Creation, which took place, as I presume you are aware, only about ten
      centuries before.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Sir!” said the Count Allamistakeo.
    </p>
<p>
      The Doctor repeated his remarks, but it was only after much additional
      explanation that the foreigner could be made to comprehend them. The
      latter at length said, hesitatingly:
    </p>
<p>
      “The ideas you have suggested are to me, I confess, utterly novel.
      During my time I never knew any one to entertain so singular a fancy as
      that the universe (or this world if you will have it so) ever had a
      beginning at all. I remember once, and once only, hearing something
      remotely hinted, by a man of many speculations, concerning the origin <i>of
      the human race;</i> and by this individual, the very word <i>Adam</i> (or
      Red Earth), which you make use of, was employed. He employed it, however,
      in a generical sense, with reference to the spontaneous germination from
      rank soil (just as a thousand of the lower genera of creatures are
      germinated)—the spontaneous germination, I say, of five vast hordes
      of men, simultaneously upspringing in five distinct and nearly equal
      divisions of the globe.”
    </p>
<p>
      Here, in general, the company shrugged their shoulders, and one or two of
      us touched our foreheads with a very significant air. Mr. Silk Buckingham,
      first glancing slightly at the occiput and then at the sinciput of
      Allamistakeo, spoke as follows:
    </p>
<p>
      “The long duration of human life in your time, together with the
      occasional practice of passing it, as you have explained, in installments,
      must have had, indeed, a strong tendency to the general development and
      conglomeration of knowledge. I presume, therefore, that we are to
      attribute the marked inferiority of the old Egyptians in all particulars
      of science, when compared with the moderns, and more especially with the
      Yankees, altogether to the superior solidity of the Egyptian skull.”
    </p>
<p>
      “I confess again,” replied the Count, with much suavity,
      “that I am somewhat at a loss to comprehend you; pray, to what
      particulars of science do you allude?”
    </p>
<p>
      Here our whole party, joining voices, detailed, at great length, the
      assumptions of phrenology and the marvels of animal magnetism.
    </p>
<p>
      Having heard us to an end, the Count proceeded to relate a few anecdotes,
      which rendered it evident that prototypes of Gall and Spurzheim had
      flourished and faded in Egypt so long ago as to have been nearly
      forgotten, and that the manoeuvres of Mesmer were really very contemptible
      tricks when put in collation with the positive miracles of the Theban
      savans, who created lice and a great many other similar things.
    </p>
<p>
      I here asked the Count if his people were able to calculate eclipses. He
      smiled rather contemptuously, and said they were.
    </p>
<p>
      This put me a little out, but I began to make other inquiries in regard to
      his astronomical knowledge, when a member of the company, who had never as
      yet opened his mouth, whispered in my ear, that for information on this
      head, I had better consult Ptolemy (whoever Ptolemy is), as well as one
      Plutarch de facie lunae.
    </p>
<p>
      I then questioned the Mummy about burning-glasses and lenses, and, in
      general, about the manufacture of glass; but I had not made an end of my
      queries before the silent member again touched me quietly on the elbow,
      and begged me for God’s sake to take a peep at Diodorus Siculus. As
      for the Count, he merely asked me, in the way of reply, if we moderns
      possessed any such microscopes as would enable us to cut cameos in the
      style of the Egyptians. While I was thinking how I should answer this
      question, little Doctor Ponnonner committed himself in a very
      extraordinary way.
    </p>
<p>
      “Look at our architecture!” he exclaimed, greatly to the
      indignation of both the travellers, who pinched him black and blue to no
      purpose.
    </p>
<p>
      “Look,” he cried with enthusiasm, “at the Bowling-Green
      Fountain in New York! or if this be too vast a contemplation, regard for a
      moment the Capitol at Washington, D. C.!”—and the good little
      medical man went on to detail very minutely, the proportions of the fabric
      to which he referred. He explained that the portico alone was adorned with
      no less than four and twenty columns, five feet in diameter, and ten feet
      apart.
    </p>
<p>
      The Count said that he regretted not being able to remember, just at that
      moment, the precise dimensions of any one of the principal buildings of
      the city of Aznac, whose foundations were laid in the night of Time, but
      the ruins of which were still standing, at the epoch of his entombment, in
      a vast plain of sand to the westward of Thebes. He recollected, however,
      (talking of the porticoes,) that one affixed to an inferior palace in a
      kind of suburb called Carnac, consisted of a hundred and forty-four
      columns, thirty-seven feet in circumference, and twenty-five feet apart.
      The approach to this portico, from the Nile, was through an avenue two
      miles long, composed of sphynxes, statues, and obelisks, twenty, sixty,
      and a hundred feet in height. The palace itself (as well as he could
      remember) was, in one direction, two miles long, and might have been
      altogether about seven in circuit. Its walls were richly painted all over,
      within and without, with hieroglyphics. He would not pretend to assert
      that even fifty or sixty of the Doctor’s Capitols might have been
      built within these walls, but he was by no means sure that two or three
      hundred of them might not have been squeezed in with some trouble. That
      palace at Carnac was an insignificant little building after all. He (the
      Count), however, could not conscientiously refuse to admit the ingenuity,
      magnificence, and superiority of the Fountain at the Bowling Green, as
      described by the Doctor. Nothing like it, he was forced to allow, had ever
      been seen in Egypt or elsewhere.
    </p>
<p>
      I here asked the Count what he had to say to our railroads.
    </p>
<p>
      “Nothing,” he replied, “in particular.” They were
      rather slight, rather ill-conceived, and clumsily put together. They could
      not be compared, of course, with the vast, level, direct, iron-grooved
      causeways upon which the Egyptians conveyed entire temples and solid
      obelisks of a hundred and fifty feet in altitude.
    </p>
<p>
      I spoke of our gigantic mechanical forces.
    </p>
<p>
      He agreed that we knew something in that way, but inquired how I should
      have gone to work in getting up the imposts on the lintels of even the
      little palace at Carnac.
    </p>
<p>
      This question I concluded not to hear, and demanded if he had any idea of
      Artesian wells; but he simply raised his eyebrows; while Mr. Gliddon
      winked at me very hard and said, in a low tone, that one had been recently
      discovered by the engineers employed to bore for water in the Great Oasis.
    </p>
<p>
      I then mentioned our steel; but the foreigner elevated his nose, and asked
      me if our steel could have executed the sharp carved work seen on the
      obelisks, and which was wrought altogether by edge-tools of copper.
    </p>
<p>
      This disconcerted us so greatly that we thought it advisable to vary the
      attack to Metaphysics. We sent for a copy of a book called the “Dial,”
      and read out of it a chapter or two about something that is not very
      clear, but which the Bostonians call the Great Movement of Progress.
    </p>
<p>
      The Count merely said that Great Movements were awfully common things in
      his day, and as for Progress, it was at one time quite a nuisance, but it
      never progressed.
    </p>
<p>
      We then spoke of the great beauty and importance of Democracy, and were at
      much trouble in impressing the Count with a due sense of the advantages we
      enjoyed in living where there was suffrage ad libitum, and no king.
    </p>
<p>
      He listened with marked interest, and in fact seemed not a little amused.
      When we had done, he said that, a great while ago, there had occurred
      something of a very similar sort. Thirteen Egyptian provinces determined
      all at once to be free, and to set a magnificent example to the rest of
      mankind. They assembled their wise men, and concocted the most ingenious
      constitution it is possible to conceive. For a while they managed
      remarkably well; only their habit of bragging was prodigious. The thing
      ended, however, in the consolidation of the thirteen states, with some
      fifteen or twenty others, in the most odious and insupportable despotism
      that was ever heard of upon the face of the Earth.
    </p>
<p>
      I asked what was the name of the usurping tyrant.
    </p>
<p>
      As well as the Count could recollect, it was Mob.
    </p>
<p>
      Not knowing what to say to this, I raised my voice, and deplored the
      Egyptian ignorance of steam.
    </p>
<p>
      The Count looked at me with much astonishment, but made no answer. The
      silent gentleman, however, gave me a violent nudge in the ribs with his
      elbows—told me I had sufficiently exposed myself for once—and
      demanded if I was really such a fool as not to know that the modern
      steam-engine is derived from the invention of Hero, through Solomon de
      Caus.
    </p>
<p>
      We were now in imminent danger of being discomfited; but, as good luck
      would have it, Doctor Ponnonner, having rallied, returned to our rescue,
      and inquired if the people of Egypt would seriously pretend to rival the
      moderns in the all—important particular of dress.
    </p>
<p>
      The Count, at this, glanced downward to the straps of his pantaloons, and
      then taking hold of the end of one of his coat-tails, held it up close to
      his eyes for some minutes. Letting it fall, at last, his mouth extended
      itself very gradually from ear to ear; but I do not remember that he said
      any thing in the way of reply.
    </p>
<p>
      Hereupon we recovered our spirits, and the Doctor, approaching the Mummy
      with great dignity, desired it to say candidly, upon its honor as a
      gentleman, if the Egyptians had comprehended, at any period, the
      manufacture of either Ponnonner’s lozenges or Brandreth’s
      pills.
    </p>
<p>
      We looked, with profound anxiety, for an answer—but in vain. It was
      not forthcoming. The Egyptian blushed and hung down his head. Never was
      triumph more consummate; never was defeat borne with so ill a grace.
      Indeed, I could not endure the spectacle of the poor Mummy’s
      mortification. I reached my hat, bowed to him stiffly, and took leave.
    </p>
<p>
      Upon getting home I found it past four o’clock, and went immediately
      to bed. It is now ten A.M. I have been up since seven, penning these
      memoranda for the benefit of my family and of mankind. The former I shall
      behold no more. My wife is a shrew. The truth is, I am heartily sick of
      this life and of the nineteenth century in general. I am convinced that
      every thing is going wrong. Besides, I am anxious to know who will be
      President in 2045. As soon, therefore, as I shave and swallow a cup of
      coffee, I shall just step over to Ponnonner’s and get embalmed for a
      couple of hundred years.
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0010">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      THE POETIC PRINCIPLE
    </h2>
<p>
      IN speaking of the Poetic Principle, I have no design to be either
      thorough or profound. While discussing, very much at random, the
      essentiality of what we call Poetry, my principal purpose will be to cite
      for consideration, some few of those minor English or American poems which
      best suit my own taste, or which, upon my own fancy, have left the most
      definite impression. By “minor poems” I mean, of course, poems
      of little length. And here, in the beginning, permit me to say a few words
      in regard to a somewhat peculiar principle, which, whether rightfully or
      wrongfully, has always had its influence in my own critical estimate of
      the poem. I hold that a long poem does not exist. I maintain that the
      phrase, “a long poem,” is simply a flat contradiction in
      terms.
    </p>
<p>
      I need scarcely observe that a poem deserves its title only inasmuch as it
      excites, by elevating the soul. The value of the poem is in the ratio of
      this elevating excitement. But all excitements are, through a psychal
      necessity, transient. That degree of excitement which would entitle a poem
      to be so called at all, cannot be sustained throughout a composition of
      any great length. After the lapse of half an hour, at the very utmost, it
      flags—fails—a revulsion ensues—and then the poem is, in
      effect, and in fact, no longer such.
    </p>
<p>
      There are, no doubt, many who have found difficulty in reconciling the
      critical dictum that the “Paradise Lost” is to be devoutly
      admired throughout, with the absolute impossibility of maintaining for it,
      during perusal, the amount of enthusiasm which that critical dictum would
      demand. This great work, in fact, is to be regarded as poetical, only
      when, losing sight of that vital requisite in all works of Art, Unity, we
      view it merely as a series of minor poems. If, to preserve its Unity—its
      totality of effect or impression—we read it (as would be necessary)
      at a single sitting, the result is but a constant alternation of
      excitement and depression. After a passage of what we feel to be true
      poetry, there follows, inevitably, a passage of platitude which no
      critical prejudgment can force us to admire; but if, upon completing the
      work, we read it again, omitting the first book—that is to say,
      commencing with the second—we shall be surprised at now finding that
      admirable which we before condemned—that damnable which we had
      previously so much admired. It follows from all this that the ultimate,
      aggregate, or absolute effect of even the best epic under the sun, is a
      nullity:—and this is precisely the fact.
    </p>
<p>
      In regard to the Iliad, we have, if not positive proof, at least very good
      reason for believing it intended as a series of lyrics; but, granting the
      epic intention, I can say only that the work is based in an imperfect
      sense of art. The modern epic is, of the supposititious ancient model, but
      an inconsiderate and blindfold imitation. But the day of these artistic
      anomalies is over. If, at any time, any very long poem <i>were </i>popular
      in reality, which I doubt, it is at least clear that no very long poem
      will ever be popular again.
    </p>
<p>
      That the extent of a poetical work is, <i>ceteris paribus, </i>the measure
      of its merit, seems undoubtedly, when we thus state it, a proposition
      sufficiently absurd—yet we are indebted for it to the Quarterly
      Reviews. Surely there can be nothing in mere <i>size, </i>abstractly
      considered—there can be nothing in mere <i>bulk, so </i>far as a
      volume is concerned, which has so continuously elicited admiration from
      these saturnine pamphlets! A mountain, to be sure, by the mere sentiment
      of physical magnitude which it conveys, <i>does </i>impress us with a
      sense of the sublime—but no man is impressed after <i>this </i>fashion
      by the material grandeur of even “The Columbiad.” Even the
      Quarterlies have not instructed us to be so impressed by it. As <i>yet,
      </i>they have not <i>insisted </i>on our estimating “Lamar”
      tine by the cubic foot, or Pollock by the pound—but what else are we
      to <i>infer </i>from their continual plating about “sustained effort”?
      If, by “sustained effort,” any little gentleman has
      accomplished an epic, let us frankly commend him for the effort—if
      this indeed be a thing conk mendable—but let us forbear praising the
      epic on the effort’s account. It is to be hoped that common sense,
      in the time to come, will prefer deciding upon a work of Art rather by the
      impression it makes—by the effect it produces—than by the time
      it took to impress the effect, or by the amount of “sustained effort”
      which had been found necessary in effecting the impression. The fact is,
      that perseverance is one thing and genius quite another—nor can all
      the Quarterlies in Christendom confound them. By and by, this proposition,
      with many which I have been just urging, will be received as self-evident.
      In the meantime, by being generally condemned as falsities, they will not
      be essentially damaged as truths.
    </p>
<p>
      On the other hand, it is clear that a poem may be improperly brief. Undue
      brevity degenerates into mere epigrammatism. A very short poem, while now
      and then producing a brilliant or vivid, never produces a profound or
      enduring effect. There must be the steady pressing down of the stamp upon
      the wax. De Beranger has wrought innumerable things, pungent and
      spirit-stirring, but in general they have been too imponderous to stamp
      themselves deeply into the public attention, and thus, as so many feathers
      of fancy, have been blown aloft only to be whistled down the wind.
    </p>
<p>
      A remarkable instance of the effect of undue brevity in depressing a poem,
      in keeping it out of the popular view, is afforded by the following
      exquisite little Serenade—
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     I arise from dreams of thee
         In the first sweet sleep of night,
     When the winds are breathing low,
         And the stars are shining bright.
     I arise from dreams of thee,
         And a spirit in my feet
     Has led me—who knows how?—
         To thy chamber-window, sweet!

     The wandering airs they faint
         On the dark the silent stream—
     The champak odors fail
         Like sweet thoughts in a dream;
     The nightingale’s complaint,
         It dies upon her heart,
     As I must die on shine,
         O, beloved as thou art!

     O, lift me from the grass!
         I die, I faint, I fail!
     Let thy love in kisses rain
         On my lips and eyelids pale.
     My cheek is cold and white, alas!
         My heart beats loud and fast:
     O, press it close to shine again,
         Where it will break at last.
</pre>
<p>
      Very few perhaps are familiar with these lines—yet no less a poet
      than Shelley is their author. Their warm, yet delicate and ethereal
      imagination will be appreciated by all, but by none so thoroughly as by
      him who has himself arisen from sweet dreams of one beloved to bathe in
      the aromatic air of a southern midsummer night.
    </p>
<p>
      One of the finest poems by Willis—the very best in my opinion which
      he has ever written—has no doubt, through this same defect of undue
      brevity, been kept back from its proper position, not less in the
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     The shadows lay along Broadway,
         ‘Twas near the twilight-tide—
     And slowly there a lady fair
         Was walking in her pride.
     Alone walk’d she; but, viewlessly,
         Walk’d spirits at her side.

     Peace charm’d the street beneath her feet,
         And Honor charm’d the air;
     And all astir looked kind on her,
         And called her good as fair—
     For all God ever gave to her
         She kept with chary care.

     She kept with care her beauties rare
         From lovers warm and true—
     For heart was cold to all but gold,
         And the rich came not to won,
     But honor’d well her charms to sell.
         If priests the selling do.

     Now walking there was one more fair—
         A slight girl, lily-pale;
     And she had unseen company
         To make the spirit quail—
     ‘Twixt Want and Scorn she walk’d forlorn,
         And nothing could avail.

     No mercy now can clear her brow
         From this world’s peace to pray
     For as love’s wild prayer dissolved in air,
         Her woman’s heart gave way!—
     But the sin forgiven by Christ in Heaven
         By man is cursed alway!
</pre>
<p>
      In this composition we find it difficult to recognize the Willis who has
      written so many mere “verses of society.” The lines are not
      only richly ideal, but full of energy, while they breathe an earnestness,
      an evident sincerity of sentiment, for which we look in vain throughout
      all the other works of this author.
    </p>
<p>
      While the epic mania, while the idea that to merit in poetry prolixity is
      indispensable, has for some years past been gradually dying out of the
      public mind, by mere dint of its own absurdity, we find it succeeded by a
      heresy too palpably false to be long tolerated, but one which, in the
      brief period it has already endured, may be said to have accomplished more
      in the corruption of our Poetical Literature than all its other enemies
      combined. I allude to the heresy of <i>The Didactic. </i>It has been
      assumed, tacitly and avowedly, directly and indirectly, that the ultimate
      object of all Poetry is Truth. Every poem, it is said, should inculcate a
      morals and by this moral is the poetical merit of the work to be adjudged.
      We Americans especially have patronized this happy idea, and we Bostonians
      very especially have developed it in full. We have taken it into our heads
      that to write a poem simply for the poem’s sake, and to acknowledge
      such to have been our design, would be to confess ourselves radically
      wanting in the true poetic dignity and force:—but the simple fact is
      that would we but permit ourselves to look into our own souls we should
      immediately there discover that under the sun there neither exists nor <i>can
      </i>exist any work more thoroughly dignified, more supremely noble, than
      this very poem, this poem <i>per se, </i>this poem which is a poem and
      nothing more, this poem written solely for the poem’s sake.
    </p>
<p>
      With as deep a reverence for the True as ever inspired the bosom of man, I
      would nevertheless limit, in some measure, its modes of inculcation. I
      would limit to enforce them. I would not enfeeble them by dissipation. The
      demands of Truth are severe. She has no sympathy with the myrtles. All <i>that
      </i>which is so indispensable in Song is precisely all <i>that </i>with
      which <i>she </i>has nothing whatever to do. It is but making her a
      flaunting paradox to wreathe her in gems and flowers. In enforcing a truth
      we need severity rather than efflorescence of language. We must be simple,
      precise, terse. We must be cool, calm, unimpassioned. In a word, we must
      be in that mood which, as nearly as possible, is the exact converse of the
      poetical. <i>He </i>must be blind indeed who does not perceive the radical
      and chasmal difference between the truthful and the poetical modes of
      inculcation. He must be theory-mad beyond redemption who, in spite of
      these differences, shall still persist in attempting to reconcile the
      obstinate oils and waters of Poetry and Truth.
    </p>
<p>
      Dividing the world of mind into its three most immediately obvious
      distinctions, we have the Pure Intellect, Taste, and the Moral Sense. I
      place Taste in the middle, because it is just this position which in the
      mind it occupies. It holds intimate relations with either extreme; but
      from the Moral Sense is separated by so faint a difference that Aristotle
      has not hesitated to place some of its operations among the virtues
      themselves. Nevertheless we find the <i>offices </i>of the trio marked
      with a sufficient distinction. Just as the Intellect concerns itself with
      Truth, so Taste informs us of the Beautiful, while the Moral Sense is
      regardful of Duty. Of this latter, while Conscience teaches the
      obligation, and Reason the expediency, Taste contents herself with
      displaying the charms:—waging war upon Vice solely on the ground of
      her deformity—her disproportion—her animosity to the fitting,
      to the appropriate, to the harmonious—in a word, to Beauty.
    </p>
<p>
      An immortal instinct deep within the spirit of man is thus plainly a sense
      of the Beautiful. This it is which administers to his delight in the
      manifold forms, and sounds, and odors and sentiments amid which he exists.
      And just as the lily is repeated in the lake, or the eyes of Amaryllis in
      the mirror, so is the mere oral or written repetition of these forms, and
      sounds, and colors, and odors, and sentiments a duplicate source of the
      light. But this mere repetition is not poetry. He who shall simply sing,
      with however glowing enthusiasm, or with however vivid a truth of
      description, of the sights, and sounds, and odors, and colors, and
      sentiments which greet <i>him </i>in common with all mankind—he, I
      say, has yet failed to prove his divine title. There is still a something
      in the distance which he has been unable to attain. We have still a thirst
      unquenchable, to allay which he has not shown us the crystal springs. This
      thirst belongs to the immortality of Man. It is at once a consequence and
      an indication of his perennial existence. It is the desire of the moth for
      the star. It is no mere appreciation of the Beauty before us, but a wild
      effort to reach the Beauty above. Inspired by an ecstatic prescience of
      the glories beyond the grave, we struggle by multiform combinations among
      the things and thoughts of Time to attain a portion of that Loveliness
      whose very elements perhaps appertain to eternity alone. And thus when by
      Poetry, or when by Music, the most entrancing of the poetic moods, we find
      ourselves melted into tears, we weep then, not as the Abbate Gravina
      supposes, through excess of pleasure, but through a certain petulant,
      impatient sorrow at our inability to grasp now, wholly, here on earth, at
      once and for ever, those divine and rapturous joys of which <i>through’
      </i>the poem, or <i>through </i>the music, we attain to but brief and
      indeterminate glimpses.
    </p>
<p>
      The struggle to apprehend the supernal Loveliness—this struggle, on
      the part of souls fittingly constituted—has given to the world all
      <i>that </i>which it (the world) has ever been enabled at once to
      understand and <i>to feel </i>as poetic.
    </p>
<p>
      The Poetic Sentiment, of course, may develop itself in various modes—in
      Painting, in Sculpture, in Architecture, in the Dance—very
      especially in Music—and very peculiarly, and with a wide field, in
      the com position of the Landscape Garden. Our present theme, however, has
      regard only to its manifestation in words. And here let me speak briefly
      on the topic of rhythm. Contenting myself with the certainty that Music,
      in its various modes of metre, rhythm, and rhyme, is of so vast a moment
      in Poetry as never to be wisely rejected—is so vitally important an
      adjunct, that he is simply silly who declines its assistance, I will not
      now pause to maintain its absolute essentiality. It is in Music perhaps
      that the soul most nearly attains the great end for which, when inspired
      by the Poetic Sentiment, it struggles—the creation of supernal
      Beauty. It <i>may </i>be, indeed, that here this sublime end is, now and
      then, attained in <i>fact. </i>We are often made to feel, with a shivering
      delight, that from an earthly harp are stricken notes which <i>cannot </i>have
      been unfamiliar to the angels. And thus there can be little doubt that in
      the union of Poetry with Music in its popular sense, we shall find the
      widest field for the Poetic development. The old Bards and Minnesingers
      had advantages which we do not possess—and Thomas Moore, singing his
      own songs, was, in the most legitimate manner, perfecting them as poems.
    </p>
<p>
      To recapitulate then:—I would define, in brief, the Poetry of words
      as <i>The Rhythmical Creation of Beauty. </i>Its sole arbiter is Taste.
      With the Intellect or with the Conscience it has only collateral
      relations. Unless incidentally, it has no concern whatever either with
      Duty or with Truth.
    </p>
<p>
      A few words, however, in explanation. <i>That </i>pleasure which is at
      once the most pure, the most elevating, and the most intense, is derived,
      I maintain, from the contemplation of the Beautiful. In the contemplation
      of Beauty we alone find it possible to attain that pleasurable elevation,
      or excitement <i>of the soul, </i>which we recognize as the Poetic
      Sentiment, and which is so easily distinguished from Truth, which is the
      satisfaction of the Reason, or from Passion, which is the excitement of
      the heart. I make Beauty, therefore—using the word as inclusive of
      the sublime—I make Beauty the province of the poem, simply because
      it is an obvious rule of Art that effects should be made to spring as
      directly as possible from their causes:—no one as yet having been
      weak enough to deny that the peculiar elevation in question is at least <i>most
      readily </i>attainable in the poem. It by no means follows, however, that
      the incitements of Passion’ or the precepts of Duty, or even the
      lessons of Truth, may not be introduced into a poem, and with advantage;
      for they may subserve incidentally, in various ways, the general purposes
      of the work: but the true artist will always contrive to tone them down in
      proper subjection to that <i>Beauty </i>which is the atmosphere and the
      real essence of the poem.
    </p>
<p>
      I cannot better introduce the few poems which I shall present for your
      consideration, than by the citation of the Proem to Longfellow’s
      “Waif”:—
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     The day is done, and the darkness
         Falls from the wings of Night,
     As a feather is wafted downward
         From an Eagle in his flight.

     I see the lights of the village
         Gleam through the rain and the mist,
     And a feeling of sadness comes o’er me,
         That my soul cannot resist;

     A feeling of sadness and longing,
         That is not akin to pain,
     And resembles sorrow only
         As the mist resembles the rain.

     Come, read to me some poem,
         Some simple and heartfelt lay,
     That shall soothe this restless feeling,
         And banish the thoughts of day.

     Not from the grand old masters,
         Not from the bards sublime,
     Whose distant footsteps echo
         Through the corridors of Time.

     For, like strains of martial music,
         Their mighty thoughts suggest
     Life’s endless toil and endeavor;
         And to-night I long for rest.

     Read from some humbler poet,
         Whose songs gushed from his heart,
     As showers from the clouds of summer,
         Or tears from the eyelids start;

     Who through long days of labor,
         And nights devoid of ease,
     Still heard in his soul the music
         Of wonderful melodies.

     Such songs have power to quiet
         The restless pulse of care,
     And come like the benediction
         That follows after prayer.

     Then read from the treasured volume
         The poem of thy choice,
     And lend to the rhyme of the poet
         The beauty of thy voice.

     And the night shall be filled with music,
         And the cares that infest the day
     Shall fold their tents like the Arabs,
         And as silently steal away.
</pre>
<p>
      With no great range of imagination, these lines have been justly admired
      for their delicacy of expression. Some of the images are very effective.
      Nothing can be better than—
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
    ———————-the bards sublime,
         Whose distant footsteps echo
     Down the corridors of Time.
</pre>
<p>
      The idea of the last quatrain is also very effective. The poem on the
      whole, however, is chiefly to be admired for the graceful <i>insouciance
      </i>of its metre, so well in accordance with the character of the
      sentiments, and especially for the <i>ease </i>of the general manner. This
      “ease” or naturalness, in a literary style, it has long been
      the fashion to regard as ease in appearance alone—as a point of
      really difficult attainment. But not so:—a natural manner is
      difficult only to him who should never meddle with it—to the
      unnatural. It is but the result of writing with the understanding, or with
      the instinct, that <i>the tone, </i>in composition, should always be that
      which the mass of mankind would adopt—and must perpetually vary, of
      course, with the occasion. The author who, after the fashion of “The
      North American Review,” should be upon <i>all </i>occasions merely
      “quiet,” must necessarily upon <i>many </i>occasions be simply
      silly, or stupid; and has no more right to be considered “easy”
      or “natural” than a Cockney exquisite, or than the sleeping
      Beauty in the waxworks.
    </p>
<p>
      Among the minor poems of Bryant, none has so much impressed me as the one
      which he entitles “June.” I quote only a portion of it:—
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     There, through the long, long summer hours,
         The golden light should lie,
     And thick young herbs and groups of flowers
         Stand in their beauty by.
     The oriole should build and tell
     His love-tale, close beside my cell;
         The idle butterfly
     Should rest him there, and there be heard
     The housewife-bee and humming bird.

     And what, if cheerful shouts at noon,
         Come, from the village sent,
     Or songs of maids, beneath the moon,
         With fairy laughter blent?
     And what if, in the evening light,
     Betrothed lovers walk in sight
         Of my low monument?
     I would the lovely scene around
     Might know no sadder sight nor sound.

     I know, I know I should not see
         The season’s glorious show,
     Nor would its brightness shine for me;
         Nor its wild music flow;
     But if, around my place of sleep,
     The friends I love should come to weep,
         They might not haste to go.
     Soft airs and song, and the light and bloom,
     Should keep them lingering by my tomb.

     These to their soften’d hearts should bear
         The thoughts of what has been,
     And speak of one who cannot share
         The gladness of the scene;
     Whose part in all the pomp that fills
     The circuit of the summer hills,
         Is—that his grave is green;
     And deeply would their hearts rejoice
     To hear again his living voice.
</pre>
<p>
      The rhythmical flow here is even voluptuous—nothing could be more
      melodious. The poem has always affected me in a remarkable manner. The
      intense melancholy which seems to well up, perforce, to the surface of all
      the poet’s cheerful sayings about his grave, we find thrilling us to
      the soul—while there is the truest poetic elevation in the thrill.
      The impression left is one of a pleasurable sadness. And if, in the
      remaining compositions which I shall introduce to you, there be more or
      less of a similar tone always apparent, let me remind you that (how or why
      we know not) this certain taint of sadness is inseparably connected with
      all the higher manifestations of true Beauty. It is, nevertheless,
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     A feeling of sadness and longing
         That is not akin to pain,
     And resembles sorrow only
         As the mist resembles the rain.
</pre>
<p>
      The taint of which I speak is clearly perceptible even in a poem so full
      of brilliancy and spirit as “The Health” of Edward Coate
      Pinckney:—
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     I fill this cup to one made up
         Of loveliness alone,
     A woman, of her gentle sex
         The seeming paragon;
     To whom the better elements
         And kindly stars have given
     A form so fair that, like the air,
         ‘Tis less of earth than heaven.

     Her every tone is music’s own,
         Like those of morning birds,
     And something more than melody
         Dwells ever in her words;
     The coinage of her heart are they,
         And from her lips each flows
     As one may see the burden’d bee
         Forth issue from the rose.

     Affections are as thoughts to her,
         The measures of her hours;
     Her feelings have the flagrancy,
         The freshness of young flowers;
     And lovely passions, changing oft,
         So fill her, she appears
     The image of themselves by turns,—
         The idol of past years!

     Of her bright face one glance will trace
         A picture on the brain,
     And of her voice in echoing hearts
         A sound must long remain;
     But memory, such as mine of her,
         So very much endears,
     When death is nigh my latest sigh
         Will not be life’s, but hers.

     I fill’d this cup to one made up
         Of loveliness alone,
     A woman, of her gentle sex
         The seeming paragon—
     Her health! and would on earth there stood,
         Some more of such a frame,
     That life might be all poetry,
         And weariness a name.
</pre>
<p>
      It was the misfortune of Mr. Pinckney to have been born too far south. Had
      he been a New Englander, it is probable that he would have been ranked as
      the first of American lyrists by that magnanimous cabal which has so long
      controlled the destinies of American Letters, in conducting the thing
      called “The North American Review.” The poem just cited is
      especially beautiful; but the poetic elevation which it induces we must
      refer chiefly to our sympathy in the poet’s enthusiasm. We pardon
      his hyperboles for the evident earnestness with which they are uttered.
    </p>
<p>
      It was by no means my design, however, to expatiate upon the <i>merits
      </i>of what I should read you. These will necessarily speak for
      themselves. Boccalini, in his “Advertisements from Parnassus,”
      tells us that Zoilus once presented Apollo a very caustic criticism upon a
      very admirable book:—whereupon the god asked him for the beauties of
      the work. He replied that he only busied himself about the errors. On
      hearing this, Apollo, handing him a sack of unwinnowed wheat, bade him
      pick out <i>all the chaff </i>for his reward.
    </p>
<p>
      Now this fable answers very well as a hit at the critics—but I am by
      no means sure that the god was in the right. I am by no means certain that
      the true limits of the critical duty are not grossly misunderstood.
      Excellence, in a poem especially, may be considered in the light of an
      axiom, which need only be properly <i>put, </i>to become self-evident. It
      is <i>not </i>excellence if it require to be demonstrated as such:—and
      thus to point out too particularly the merits of a work of Art, is to
      admit that they are <i>not </i>merits altogether.
    </p>
<p>
      Among the “Melodies” of Thomas Moore is one whose
      distinguished character as a poem proper seems to have been singularly
      left out of view. I allude to his lines beginning—“Come, rest
      in this bosom.” The intense energy of their expression is not
      surpassed by anything in Byron. There are two of the lines in which a
      sentiment is conveyed that embodies the <i>all in all </i>of the divine
      passion of Love—a sentiment which, perhaps, has found its echo in
      more, and in more passionate, human hearts than any other single sentiment
      ever embodied in words:—
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     Come, rest in this bosom, my own stricken deer
     Though the herd have fled from thee, thy home is still here;
     Here still is the smile, that no cloud can o’ercast,
     And a heart and a hand all thy own to the last.

     Oh! what was love made for, if ‘tis not the same
     Through joy and through torment, through glory and shame?
     I know not, I ask not, if guilt’s in that heart,
     I but know that I love thee, whatever thou art.

     Thou hast call’d me thy Angel in moments of bliss,
     And thy Angel I’ll be, ‘mid the horrors of this,—
     Through the furnace, unshrinking, thy steps to pursue,
     And shield thee, and save thee,—or perish there too!
</pre>
<p>
      It has been the fashion of late days to deny Moore Imagination, while
      granting him Fancy—a distinction originating with Coleridge—than
      whom no man more fully comprehended the great powers of Moore. The fact
      is, that the fancy of this poet so far predominates over all his other
      faculties, and over the fancy of all other men, as to have induced, very
      naturally, the idea that he is fanciful <i>only. </i>But never was there a
      greater mistake. Never was a grosser wrong done the fame of a true poet.
      In the compass of the English language I can call to mind no poem more
      profoundly—more weirdly <i>imaginative, </i>in the best sense, than
      the lines commencing—“I would I were by that dim lake”—which
      are the com. position of Thomas Moore. I regret that I am unable to
      remember them.
    </p>
<p>
      One of the noblest—and, speaking of Fancy—one of the most
      singularly fanciful of modern poets, was Thomas Hood. His “Fair Ines”
      had always for me an inexpressible charm:—
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     O saw ye not fair Ines?
         She’s gone into the West,
     To dazzle when the sun is down,
         And rob the world of rest;
     She took our daylight with her,
         The smiles that we love best,
     With morning blushes on her cheek,
         And pearls upon her breast.

     O turn again, fair Ines,
         Before the fall of night,
     For fear the moon should shine alone,
         And stars unrivalltd bright;
     And blessed will the lover be
         That walks beneath their light,
     And breathes the love against thy cheek
         I dare not even write!

     Would I had been, fair Ines,
         That gallant cavalier,
     Who rode so gaily by thy side,
         And whisper’d thee so near!
     Were there no bonny dames at home
         Or no true lovers here,
     That he should cross the seas to win
         The dearest of the dear?

     I saw thee, lovely Ines,
         Descend along the shore,
     With bands of noble gentlemen,
         And banners waved before;
     And gentle youth and maidens gay,
         And snowy plumes they wore;
     It would have been a beauteous dream,
         If it had been no more!

     Alas, alas, fair Ines,
         She went away with song,
     With music waiting on her steps,
         And shootings of the throng;
     But some were sad and felt no mirth,
         But only Music’s wrong,
     In sounds that sang Farewell, Farewell,
         To her you’ve loved so long.

     Farewell, farewell, fair Ines,
         That vessel never bore
     So fair a lady on its deck,
         Nor danced so light before,—
     Alas for pleasure on the sea,
         And sorrow on the shorel
     The smile that blest one lover’s heart
         Has broken many more!
</pre>
<p>
      “The Haunted House,” by the same author, is one of the truest
      poems ever written,—one of the truest, one of the most
      unexceptionable, one of the most thoroughly artistic, both in its theme
      and in its execution. It is, moreover, powerfully ideal—imaginative.
      I regret that its length renders it unsuitable for the purposes of this
      lecture. In place of it permit me to offer the universally appreciated
      “Bridge of Sighs”:—
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     One more Unfortunate,
     Weary of breath,
     Rashly importunate
     Gone to her death!

     Take her up tenderly,
     Lift her with care;—
     Fashion’d so slenderly,
     Young and so fair!

     Look at her garments
     Clinging like cerements;
     Whilst the wave constantly
     Drips from her clothing;
     Take her up instantly,
     Loving not loathing.

     Touch her not scornfully;
     Think of her mournfully,
     Gently and humanly;
     Not of the stains of her,
     All that remains of her
     Now is pure womanly.

     Make no deep scrutiny
     Into her mutiny
     Rash and undutiful;
     Past all dishonor,
     Death has left on her
     Only the beautiful.

     Where the lamps quiver
     So far in the river,
     With many a light
     From window and casement
     From garret to basement,
     She stood, with amazement,
     Houseless by night.

     The bleak wind of March
     Made her tremble and shiver,
     But not the dark arch,
     Or the black flowing river:
     Mad from life’s history,
     Glad to death’s mystery,
     Swift to be hurl’d—
     Anywhere, anywhere
     Out of the world!

     In she plunged boldly,
     No matter how coldly
     The rough river ran,—
     Over the brink of it,
     Picture it,—think of it,
     Dissolute Man!
     Lave in it, drink of it
     Then, if you can!

     Still, for all slips of hers,
     One of Eve’s family—
     Wipe those poor lips of hers
     Oozing so clammily,
     Loop up her tresses
     Escaped from the comb,
     Her fair auburn tresses;
     Whilst wonderment guesses
     Where was her home?

     Who was her father?
     Who was her mother?
     Had she a sister?
     Had she a brother?
     Or was there a dearer one
     Still, and a nearer one
     Yet, than all other?

     Alas! for the rarity
     Of Christian charity
     Under the sun!
     Oh! it was pitiful!
     Near a whole city full,
     Home she had none.

     Sisterly, brotherly,
     Fatherly, motherly,
     Feelings had changed:
     Love, by harsh evidence,
     Thrown from its eminence;
     Even God’s providence
     Seeming estranged.

     Take her up tenderly;
     Lift her with care;
     Fashion’d so slenderly,
     Young, and so fair!
     Ere her limbs frigidly
     Stiffen too rigidly,
     Decently,—kindly,—
     Smooth and compose them;
     And her eyes, close them,
     Staring so blindly!

     Dreadfully staring
     Through muddy impurity,
     As when with the daring
     Last look of despairing
     Fixed on futurity.

     Perhishing gloomily,
     Spurred by contumely,
     Cold inhumanity,
     Burning insanity,
     Into her rest,—
     Cross her hands humbly,
     As if praying dumbly,
     Over her breast!
     Owning her weakness,
     Her evil behavior,
     And leaving, with meekness,
     Her sins to her Saviour!
</pre>
<p>
      The vigor of this poem is no less remarkable than its pathos. The
      versification although carrying the fanciful to the very verge of the
      fantastic, is nevertheless admirably adapted to the wild insanity which is
      the thesis of the poem.
    </p>
<p>
      Among the minor poems of Lord Byron is one which has never received from
      the critics the praise which it undoubtedly deserves:—
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     Though the day of my destiny’s over,
         And the star of my fate bath declined
     Thy soft heart refused to discover
         The faults which so many could find;
     Though thy soul with my grief was acquainted,
         It shrunk not to share it with me,
     And the love which my spirit bath painted
         It never bath found but in <i>thee.</i>

     Then when nature around me is smiling,
         The last smile which answers to mine,
     I do not believe it beguiling,
         Because it reminds me of shine;
     And when winds are at war with the ocean,
         As the breasts I believed in with me,
     If their billows excite an emotion,
         It is that they bear me from <i>thee.</i>

     Though the rock of my last hope is shivered,
         And its fragments are sunk in the wave,
     Though I feel that my soul is delivered
         To pain—it shall not be its slave.
     There is many a pang to pursue me:
         They may crush, but they shall not contemn—
     They may torture, but shall not subdue me—
         ‘Tis of <i>thee </i>that I think—not of them.

     Though human, thou didst not deceive me,
         Though woman, thou didst not forsake,
     Though loved, thou forborest to grieve me,
         Though slandered, thou never couldst shake,—
     Though trusted, thou didst not disclaim me,
         Though parted, it was not to fly,
     Though watchful, ‘twas not to defame me,
         Nor mute, that the world might belie.

     Yet I blame not the world, nor despise it,
         Nor the war of the many with one—
     If my soul was not fitted to prize it,
         ‘Twas folly not sooner to shun:
     And if dearly that error bath cost me,
         And more than I once could foresee,
     I have found that whatever it lost me,
         It could not deprive me of <i>thee.</i>

     From the wreck of the past, which bath perished,
         Thus much I at least may recall,
     It bath taught me that which I most cherished
         Deserved to be dearest of all:
     In the desert a fountain is springing,
         In the wide waste there still is a tree,
     And a bird in the solitude singing,
        Which speaks to my spirit of <i>thee.</i>
</pre>
<p>
      Although the rhythm here is one of the most difficult, the versification
      could scarcely be improved. No nobler <i>theme </i>ever engaged the pen of
      poet. It is the soul-elevating idea that no man can consider himself
      entitled to complain of Fate while in his adversity he still retains the
      unwavering love of woman.
    </p>
<p>
      From Alfred Tennyson, although in perfect sincerity I regard him as the
      noblest poet that ever lived, I have left myself time to cite only a very
      brief specimen. I call him, and <i>think </i>him the noblest of poets, <i>not
      </i>because the impressions he produces are at <i>all </i>times the most
      profound—<i>not </i>because the poetical excitement which he induces
      is at <i>all </i>times the most intense—but because it is at all
      times the most ethereal—in other words, the most elevating and most
      pure. No poet is so little of the earth, earthy. What I am about to read
      is from his last long poem, “The Princess”:—
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
         Tears, idle tears, I know not what they mean,
     Tears from the depth of some divine despair
     Rise in the heart, and gather to the eyes,
     In looking on the happy Autumn fields,
     And thinking of the days that are no more.

         Fresh as the first beam glittering on a sail,
     That brings our friends up from the underworld,
     Sad as the last which reddens over one
     That sinks with all we love below the verge;
     So sad, so fresh, the days that are no more.

         Ah, sad and strange as in dark summer dawns
     The earliest pipe of half-awaken’d birds
     To dying ears, when unto dying eyes
     The casement slowly grows a glimmering square;
     So sad, so strange, the days that are no more.

         Dear as remember’d kisses after death,
     And sweet as those by hopeless fancy feign’d
     On lips that are for others; deep as love,
     Deep as first love, and wild with all regret;
     O Death in Life, the days that are no more.
</pre>
<p>
      Thus, although in a very cursory and imperfect manner, I have endeavored
      to convey to you my conception of the Poetic Principle. It has been my
      purpose to suggest that, while this principle itself is strictly and
      simply the Human Aspiration for Supernal Beauty, the manifestation of the
      Principle is always found in <i>an elevating excitement of the soul, </i>quite
      independent of that passion which is the intoxication of the Heart, or of
      that truth which is the satisfaction of the Reason. For in regard to
      passion, alas! its tendency is to degrade rather than to elevate the Soul.
      Love, on the contrary—Love—the true, the divine Eros—the
      Uranian as distinguished from the Diona an Venus—is unquestionably
      the purest and truest of all poetical themes. And in regard to Truth, if,
      to be sure, through the attainment of a truth we are led to perceive a
      harmony where none was apparent before, we experience at once the true
      poetical effect; but this effect is referable to the harmony alone, and
      not in the least degree to the truth which merely served to render the
      harmony manifest.
    </p>
<p>
      We shall reach, however, more immediately a distinct conception of what
      the true Poetry is, by mere reference to a few of the simple elements
      which induce in the Poet himself the poetical effect He recognizes the
      ambrosia which nourishes his soul in the bright orbs that shine in Heaven—in
      the volutes of the flower—in the clustering of low shrubberies—in
      the waving of the grain-fields—in the slanting of tall eastern trees—in
      the blue distance of mountains—in the grouping of clouds—in
      the twinkling of half-hidden brooks—in the gleaming of silver rivers—in
      the repose of sequestered lakes—in the star-mirroring depths of
      lonely wells. He perceives it in the songs of birds—in the harp of
      Bolos—in the sighing of the night-wind—in the repining voice
      of the forest—in the surf that complains to the shore—in the
      fresh breath of the woods—in the scent of the violet—in the
      voluptuous perfume of the hyacinth—in the suggestive odour that
      comes to him at eventide from far distant undiscovered islands, over dim
      oceans, illimitable and unexplored. He owns it in all noble thoughts—in
      all unworldly motives—in all holy impulses—in all chivalrous,
      generous, and self-sacrificing deeds. He feels it in the beauty of woman—in
      the grace of her step—in the lustre of her eye—in the melody
      of her voice—in her soft laughter, in her sigh—in the harmony
      of the rustling of her robes. He deeply feels it in her winning
      endearments—in her burning enthusiasms—in her gentle charities—in
      her meek and devotional endurances—but above all—ah, far above
      all, he kneels to it—he worships it in the faith, in the purity, in
      the strength, in the altogether divine majesty—of her love.
    </p>
<p>
      Let me conclude by—the recitation of yet another brief poem—one
      very different in character from any that I have before quoted. It is by
      Motherwell, and is called “The Song of the Cavalier.” With our
      modern and altogether rational ideas of the absurdity and impiety of
      warfare, we are not precisely in that frame of mind best adapted to
      sympathize with the sentiments, and thus to appreciate the real excellence
      of the poem. To do this fully we must identify ourselves in fancy with the
      soul of the old cavalier:—
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     Then mounte! then mounte, brave gallants all,
         And don your helmes amaine:
     Deathe’s couriers. Fame and Honor call
         No shrewish teares shall fill your eye
     When the sword-hilt’s in our hand,—
         Heart-whole we’ll part, and no whit sighe
     For the fayrest of the land;
         Let piping swaine, and craven wight,
     Thus weepe and poling crye,
         Our business is like men to fight.
</pre>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0011">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      OLD ENGLISH POETRY (*)
    </h2>
<p>
      IT should not be doubted that at least one-third of the affection with
      which we regard the elder poets of Great Britain should be-attributed to
      what is, in itself, a thing apart from poetry-we mean to the simple love
      of the antique-and that, again, a third of even the proper <i>poetic
      sentiment inspired</i>by their writings should be ascribed to a fact
      which, while it has strict connection with poetry in the abstract, and
      with the old British poems themselves, should not be looked upon as a
      merit appertaining to the authors of the poems. Almost every devout
      admirer of the old bards, if demanded his opinion of their productions,
      would mention vaguely, yet with perfect sincerity, a sense of dreamy,
      wild, indefinite, and he would perhaps say, indefinable delight; on being
      required to point out the source of this so shadowy pleasure, he would be
      apt to speak of the quaint in phraseology and in general handling. This
      quaintness is, in fact, a very powerful adjunct to ideality, but in the
      case in question it arises independently of the author’s will, and
      is altogether apart from his intention. Words and their rhythm have
      varied. Verses which affect us to-day with a vivid delight, and which
      delight, in many instances, may be traced to the one source, quaintness,
      must have worn in the days of their construction, a very commonplace air.
      This is, of course, no argument against the poems now-we mean it only as
      against the poets <i>thew. </i>There is a growing desire to overrate them.
      The old English muse was frank, guileless, sincere, and although very
      learned, still learned without art. No general error evinces a more
      thorough confusion of ideas than the error of supposing Donne and Cowley
      metaphysical in the sense wherein Wordsworth and Coleridge are so. With
      the two former ethics were the end-with the two latter the means. The poet
      of the “Creation” wished, by highly artificial verse, to
      inculcate what he supposed to be moral truth-the poet of the “Ancient
      Mariner” to infuse the Poetic Sentiment through channels suggested
      by analysis. The one finished by complete failure what he commenced in the
      grossest misconception; the other, by a path which could not possibly lead
      him astray, arrived at a triumph which is not the less glorious because
      hidden from the profane eyes of the multitude. But in this view even the
      “metaphysical verse” of Cowley is but evidence of the
      simplicity and single-heartedness of the man. And he was in this but a
      type of his school-for we may as well designate in this way the entire
      class of writers whose poems are bound up in the volume before us, and
      throughout all of whom there runs a very perceptible general character.
      They used little art in composition. Their writings sprang immediately
      from the soul-and partook intensely of that soul’s nature. Nor is it
      difficult to perceive the tendency of this <i>abandon-to elevate </i>immeasurably
      all the energies of mind-but, again, so to mingle the greatest possible
      fire, force, delicacy, and all good things, with the lowest possible
      bathos, baldness, and imbecility, as to render it not a matter of doubt
      that the average results of mind in such a school will be found inferior
      to those results in one <i>(ceteris </i>paribus) more artificial.
    </p>
<p>
      We can not bring ourselves to believe that the selections of the “Book
      of Gems” are such as will impart to a poetical reader the clearest
      possible idea of the beauty of the school-but if the intention had been
      merely to show the school’s character, the attempt might have been
      considered successful in the highest degree. There are long passages now
      before us of the most despicable trash, with no merit whatever beyond that
      of their antiquity.. The criticisms of the editor do not particularly
      please us. His enthusiasm is too general and too vivid not to be false.
      His opinion, for example, of Sir Henry Wotton’s “Verses on the
      Queen of Bohemia"-that “there are few finer things in our language,”
      is untenable and absurd.
    </p>
<p>
      In such lines we can perceive not one of those higher attributes of Poesy
      which belong to her in all circumstances and throughout all time. Here
      every thing is art, nakedly, or but awkwardly concealed. No prepossession
      for the mere antique (and in this case we can imagine no other
      prepossession) should induce us to dignify with the sacred name of poetry,
      a series, such as this, of elaborate and threadbare compliments, stitched,
      apparently, together, without fancy, without plausibility, and without
      even an attempt at adaptation.
    </p>
<p>
      In common with all the world, we have been much delighted with “The
      Shepherd’s Hunting” by Withers—a poem partaking, in a
      remarkable degree, of the peculiarities of “Il Penseroso.”
      Speaking of Poesy the author says:
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     “By the murmur of a spring,
     Or the least boughs rustleling,
     By a daisy whose leaves spread,
     Shut when Titan goes to bed,
     Or a shady bush or tree,
     She could more infuse in me
     Than all Nature’s beauties can
     In some other wiser man.
     By her help I also now
     Make this churlish place allow
     Something that may sweeten gladness
     In the very gall of sadness—
     The dull loneness, the black shade,
     That these hanging vaults have made
     The strange music of the waves
     Beating on these hollow caves,
     This black den which rocks emboss,
     Overgrown with eldest moss,
     The rude portals that give light
     More to terror than delight,
     This my chamber of neglect

     Walled about with disrespect;
     From all these and this dull air
     A fit object for despair,
     She hath taught me by her might
     To draw comfort and delight.”
 </pre>
<p>
      But these lines, however good, do not bear with them much of the general
      character of the English antique. Something more of this will be found in
      Corbet’s “Farewell to the Fairies!” We copy a portion of
      Marvell’s “Maiden lamenting for her Fawn,” which we
      prefer-not only as a specimen of the elder poets, but in itself as a
      beautiful poem, abounding in pathos, exquisitely delicate imagination and
      truthfulness-to anything of its species:
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     “It is a wondrous thing how fleet
     ‘Twas on those little silver feet,
     With what a pretty skipping grace
     It oft would challenge me the race,
     And when’t had left me far away
     ‘Twould stay, and run again, and stay;
     For it was nimbler much than hinds,
     And trod as if on the four winds.
     I have a garden of my own,
     But so with roses overgrown,
     And lilies, that you would it guess
     To be a little wilderness;
     And all the spring-time of the year
     It only loved to be there.
     Among the beds of lilies I
     Have sought it oft where it should lie,
     Yet could not, till itself would rise,
     Find it, although before mine eyes.
     For in the flaxen lilies’ shade
     It like a bank of lilies laid;
     Upon the roses it would feed
     Until its lips even seemed to bleed,
     And then to me ‘twould boldly trip,
     And print those roses on my lip,
     But all its chief delight was still
     With roses thus itself to fill,
     And its pure virgin limbs to fold
     In whitest sheets of lilies cold.
     Had it lived long, it would have been
     Lilies without, roses within.”
 </pre>
<p>
      How truthful an air of lamentations hangs here upon every syllable! It
      pervades all.. It comes over the sweet melody of the words-over the
      gentleness and grace which we fancy in the little maiden herself-even over
      the half-playful, half-petulant air with which she lingers on the beauties
      and good qualities of her favorite-like the cool shadow of a summer cloud
      over a bed of lilies and violets, “and all sweet flowers.” The
      whole is redolent with poetry of a very lofty order. Every line is an idea
      conveying either the beauty and playfulness of the fawn, or the
      artlessness of the maiden, or her love, or her admiration, or her grief,
      or the fragrance and warmth and <i>appropriateness </i>of the little
      nest-like bed of lilies and roses which the fawn devoured as it lay upon
      them, and could scarcely be distinguished from them by the once happy
      little damsel who went to seek her pet with an arch and rosy smile on her
      face. Consider the great variety of truthful and delicate thought in the
      few lines we have quoted the <i>wonder </i>of the little maiden at the
      fleetness of her favorite-the “little silver feet”—the
      fawn challenging his mistress to a race with “a pretty skipping
      grace,” running on before, and then, with head turned back, awaiting
      her approach only to fly from it again-can we not distinctly perceive all
      these things? How exceedingly vigorous, too, is the line,
    </p>
<p>
      “And trod as if on the four winds!”
    </p>
<p>
      A vigor apparent only when we keep in mind the artless character of the
      speaker and the four feet of the favorite, one for each wind. Then
      consider the garden of “my own,” so overgrown, entangled with
      roses and lilies, as to be “a little wilderness”—the
      fawn loving to be there, and there “only”—the maiden
      seeking it “where it <i>should </i>lie”—and not being
      able to distinguish it from the flowers until “itself would rise”—the
      lying among the lilies “like a bank of lilies”—the
      loving to “fill itself with roses,”
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
        “And its pure virgin limbs to fold
        In whitest sheets of lilies cold,”
 </pre>
<p>
      and these things being its “chief” delights-and then the
      pre-eminent beauty and naturalness of the concluding lines, whose very
      hyperbole only renders them more true to nature when we consider the
      innocence, the artlessness, the enthusiasm, the passionate girl, and more
      passionate admiration of the bereaved child—
    </p>
<p>
      “Had it lived long, it would have been Lilies without, roses within.”
    </p>
<p>
      * “Book of Gems,” Edited by S. C. Hall
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0012">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      POEMS
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
                        TO

            THE NOBLEST OF HER SEX

                  THE AUTHOR OF

            “THE DRAMA OF EXILE”—

                        TO

            MISS ELIZABETH BARRETT BROWNING

                   OF ENGLAND

            <i>I DEDICATE THIS VOLUME</i>

      WITH THE MOST ENTHUSIASTIC ADMIRATION AND WITH

            THE MOST SINCERE ESTEEM

      1845                      E.A.P.
</pre>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_PREF">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      PREFACE
    </h2>
<p>
      THESE trifles are collected and republished chiefly with a view to their
      redemption from the many improvements to which they have been subjected
      while going at random the “rounds of the press.” I am
      naturally anxious that what I have written should circulate as I wrote it,
      if it circulate at all. In defence of my own taste, nevertheless, it is
      incumbent upon me to say that I think nothing in this volume of much value
      to the public, or very creditable to myself. Events not to be controlled
      have prevented me from making, at any time, any serious effort in what,
      under happier circumstances, would have been the field of my choice. With
      me poetry has been not a purpose, but a passion; and the passions should
      be held in reverence: they must not-they can not at will be excited, with
      an eye to the paltry compensations, or the more paltry commendations, of
      man-kind.
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
                           E. A. P.

   1845
</pre>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0014">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      POEMS OF LATER LIFE
    </h2>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0015">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      THE RAVEN.
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
 Once upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered, weak and weary,
 Over many a quaint and curious volume of forgotten lore,
 While I nodded, nearly napping, suddenly there came a tapping,
 As of some one gently rapping, rapping at my chamber door.
 “‘Tis some visiter,” I muttered, “tapping at my chamber door—
                          Only this, and nothing more.”

 Ah, distinctly I remember it was in the bleak December,
 And each separate dying ember wrought its ghost upon the floor.
 Eagerly I wished the morrow;—vainly I had sought to borrow
 From my books surcease of sorrow—sorrow for the lost Lenore—
 For the rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore—
                          Nameless here for evermore.

 And the silken sad uncertain rustling of each purple curtain
 Thrilled me—filled me with fantastic terrors never felt before;
 So that now, to still the beating of my heart, I stood repeating
 “‘Tis some visiter entreating entrance at my chamber door—
 Some late visiter entreating entrance at my chamber door;—
                          This it is, and nothing more.”

 Presently my soul grew stronger; hesitating then no longer,
 “Sir,” said I, “or Madam, truly your forgiveness I implore;
 But the fact is I was napping, and so gently you came rapping,
 And so faintly you came tapping, tapping at my chamber door,
 That I scarce was sure I heard you “—here I opened wide the door;——
                          Darkness there and nothing more.

 Deep into that darkness peering, long I stood there wondering, fearing,
 Doubting, dreaming dreams no mortal ever dared to dream before;
 But the silence was unbroken, and the darkness gave no token,
 And the only word there spoken was the whispered word, “Lenore!”
  This I whispered, and an echo murmured back the word, “Lenore!”—
                          Merely this, and nothing more.

 Back into the chamber turning, all my soul within me burning,
 Soon I heard again a tapping somewhat louder than before.
 “Surely,” said I, “surely that is something at my window lattice;
 Let me see, then, what thereat is, and this mystery explore—
 Let my heart be still a moment and this mystery explore;—
                          ‘Tis the wind and nothing more!”

 Open here I flung the shutter, when, with many a flirt and flutter,
 In there stepped a stately raven of the saintly days of yore;
 Not the least obeisance made he; not an instant stopped or stayed he;
 But, with mien of lord or lady, perched above my chamber door—
 Perched upon a bust of Pallas just above my chamber door—
                          Perched, and sat, and nothing more.

 Then this ebony bird beguiling my sad fancy into smiling,
 By the grave and stern decorum of the countenance it wore,
 “Though thy crest be shorn and shaven, thou,” I said, “art sure no craven,
 Ghastly grim and ancient raven wandering from the Nightly shore—
 Tell me what thy lordly name is on the Night’s Plutonian shore!”
                          Quoth the raven “Nevermore.”

 Much I marvelled this ungainly fowl to hear discourse so plainly,
 Though its answer little meaning—little relevancy bore;
 For we cannot help agreeing that no living human being
 Ever yet was blessed with seeing bird above his chamber door—
 Bird or beast upon the sculptured bust above his chamber door,
                         With such name as “Nevermore.”

 But the raven, sitting lonely on the placid bust, spoke only
 That one word, as if his soul in that one word he did outpour.
 Nothing farther then he uttered—not a feather then he fluttered—
 Till I scarcely more than muttered “Other friends have flown before—
 On the morrow <i>he</i> will leave me, as my hopes have flown before.”
                          Then the bird said “Nevermore.”

 Startled at the stillness broken by reply so aptly spoken,
 “Doubtless,” said I, “what it utters is its only stock and store
 Caught from some unhappy master whom unmerciful Disaster
 Followed fast and followed faster till his songs one burden bore—
 Till the dirges of his Hope that melancholy burden bore
                         Of “Never—nevermore.”

 But the raven still beguiling all my sad soul into smiling,
 Straight I wheeled a cushioned seat in front of bird, and bust and door;
 Then, upon the velvet sinking, I betook myself to thinking
 Fancy unto fancy, thinking what this ominous bird of yore—
 What this grim, ungainly, ghastly, gaunt and ominous bird of yore
                         Meant in croaking “Nevermore.”

 This I sat engaged in guessing, but no syllable expressing
 To the fowl whose fiery eyes now burned into my bosom’s core;
 This and more I sat divining, with my head at ease reclining
 On the cushion’s velvet lining that the lamplght gloated o’er,
 But whose velvet violet lining with the lamplight gloating o’er,
                          <i>She</i> shall press, ah, nevermore!

 Then, methought, the air grew denser, perfumed from an unseen censer
 Swung by Angels whose faint foot-falls tinkled on the tufted floor.
 “Wretch,” I cried, “thy God hath lent thee—by these angels he hath sent
 thee
 Respite—respite and nepenthe from thy memories of Lenore;
 Quaff, oh quaff this kind nepenthe and forget this lost Lenore!”
                           Quoth the raven, “Nevermore.”

 “Prophet!” said I, “thing of evil!—prophet still, if bird or devil!—
 Whether Tempter sent, or whether tempest tossed thee here ashore,
 Desolate yet all undaunted, on this desert land enchanted—
 On this home by Horror haunted—tell me truly, I implore—
 Is there—<i>is</i> there balm in Gilead?—tell me—tell me, I implore!”
                           Quoth the raven, “Nevermore.”

 “Prophet!” said I, “thing of evil—prophet still, if bird or devil!
 By that Heaven that bends above us—by that God we both adore—
 Tell this soul with sorrow laden if, within the distant Aidenn,
 It shall clasp a sainted maiden whom the angels name Lenore—
 Clasp a rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore.”
                           Quoth the raven, “Nevermore.”

 “Be that word our sign of parting, bird or fiend!” I shrieked, upstarting—
 “Get thee back into the tempest and the Night’s Plutonian shore!
 Leave no black plume as a token of that lie thy soul hath spoken!
 Leave my loneliness unbroken!—quit the bust above my door!
 Take thy beak from out my heart, and take thy form from off my door!”
                          Quoth the raven, “Nevermore.”

 And the raven, never flitting, still is sitting, still is sitting
 On the pallid bust of Pallas just above my chamber door;
 And his eyes have all the seeming of a demon’s that is dreaming,
 And the lamp-light o’er him streaming throws his shadow on the floor;
 And my soul from out that shadow that lies floating on the floor
                          Shall be lifted—nevermore!
</pre>
<p>
      Published 1845.
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0016">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      THE BELLS.
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
                                       I.

                    HEAR the sledges with the bells—
                          Silver bells!
     What a world of merriment their melody foretells!
                How they tinkle, tinkle, tinkle,
                      In the icy air of night!
                While the stars that oversprinkle
                All the heavens, seem to twinkle
                      With a crystalline delight;
                   Keeping time, time, time,
                   In a sort of Runic rhyme,
     To the tintinnabulation that so musically wells
           From the bells, bells, bells, bells,
                          Bells, bells, bells—
        From the jingling and the tinkling of the bells.

                                      II.

                    Hear the mellow wedding-bells
                          Golden bells!
     What a world of happiness their harmony foretells!
                Through the balmy air of night
                How they ring out their delight!—
                      From the molten-golden notes,
                          And all in tune,
                      What a liquid ditty floats
           To the turtle-dove that listens, while she gloats
                          On the moon!
                  Oh, from out the sounding cells,
     What a gush of euphony voluminously wells!
                          How it swells!
                          How it dwells
                      On the Future!—how it tells
                      Of the rapture that impels
                  To the swinging and the ringing
                      Of the bells, bells, bells—
           Of the bells, bells, bells, bells,
                          Bells, bells, bells—
        To the rhyming and the chiming of the bells!

                                      III.

                    Hear the loud alarum bells—
                          Brazen bells!
     What tale of terror, now, their turbulency tells!
                In the startled ear of night
                How they scream out their affright!
                    Too much horrified to speak,
                    They can only shriek, shriek,
                       Out of tune,
     In a clamorous appealing to the mercy of the fire,
     In a mad expostulation with the deaf and frantic fire,
                       Leaping higher, higher, higher,
                       With a desperate desire,
                    And a resolute endeavor
                    Now—now to sit, or never,
                By the side of the pale-faced moon.
                       Oh, the bells, bells, bells!
                       What a tale their terror tells
                          Of Despair!
             How they clang, and clash, and roar!
             What a horror they outpour
     On the bosom of the palpitating air!
                Yet the ear, it fully knows,
                      By the twanging
                      And the clanging,
                 How the danger ebbs and flows;
             Yet, the ear distinctly tells,
                   In the jangling
                   And the wrangling,
             How the danger sinks and swells,
     By the sinking or the swelling in the anger of the bells—
                   Of the bells—
           Of the bells, bells, bells, bells,
                          Bells, bells, bells—
        In the clamour and the clangour of the bells!

                                   IV.

                    Hear the tolling of the bells—
                          Iron bells!
     What a world of solemn thought their monody compels!
             In the silence of the night,
             How we shiver with affright
         At the melancholy meaning of their tone!
                 For every sound that floats
                 From the rust within their throats
                         Is a groan.
                     And the people—ah, the people—
                     They that dwell up in the steeple,
                         All alone,
                 And who, tolling, tolling, tolling,
                     In that muffled monotone,
                 Feel a glory in so rolling
                     On the human heart a stone—
             They are neither man nor woman—
             They are neither brute nor human—
                         They are Ghouls:—
                 And their king it is who tolls:—
                 And he rolls, rolls, rolls, rolls,
                          Rolls
                     A p?an from the bells!
                 And his merry bosom swells
                     With the p?an of the bells!
                 And he dances, and he yells;
             Keeping time, time, time,
             In a sort of Runic rhyme,
                     To the p?an of the bells—
                          Of the bells:—
             Keeping time, time, time,
             In a sort of Runic rhyme,
                     To the throbbing of the bells—
                 Of the bells, bells, bells—
                     To the sobbing of the bells:—
             Keeping time, time, time,
                 As he knells, knells, knells,
             In a happy Runic rhyme,
                     To the rolling of the bells—
                 Of the bells, bells, bells:—
                     To the tolling of the bells—
           Of the bells, bells, bells, bells,
                          Bells, bells, bells—
        To the moaning and the groaning of the bells.
</pre>
<p>
      1849. <a name="2151link2H_4_0017">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      ULALUME
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     The skies they were ashen and sober;
         The leaves they were crisped and sere—
         The leaves they were withering and sere;
     It was night in the lonesome October
         Of my most immemorial year:
     It was hard by the dim lake of Auber,
         In the misty mid region of Weir:—
     It was down by the dank tarn of Auber,
         In the ghoul-haunted woodland of Weir.

     Here once, through an alley Titanic,
         Of cypress, I roamed with my Soul—
         Of cypress, with Psyche, my Soul.
     There were days when my heart was volcanic
         As the scoriac rivers that roll—
         As the lavas that restlessly roll
     Their sulphurous currents down Yaanek,
         In the ultimate climes of the Pole—
     That groan as they roll down Mount Yaanek
         In the realms of the Boreal Pole.

     Our talk had been serious and sober,
         But our thoughts they were palsied and sere—
         Our memories were treacherous and sere;
     For we knew not the month was October,
         And we marked not the night of the year—
         (Ah, night of all nights in the year!)
     We noted not the dim lake of Auber,
         (Though once we had journeyed down here)
     We remembered not the dank tarn of Auber,
         Nor the ghoul-haunted woodland of Weir.

     And now, as the night was senescent,
         And star-dials pointed to morn—
         As the star-dials hinted of morn—
     At the end of our path a liquescent
         And nebulous lustre was born,
     Out of which a miraculous crescent
         Arose with a duplicate horn—
     Astarte’s bediamonded crescent,
         Distinct with its duplicate horn.

     And I said—“She is warmer than Dian:
         She rolls through an ether of sighs—
         She revels in a region of sighs.
     She has seen that the tears are not dry on
         These cheeks, where the worm never dies,
     And has come past the stars of the Lion,
         To point us the path to the skies—
         To the Lethean peace of the skies—
     Come up, in despite of the Lion,
         To shine on us with her bright eyes—
     Come up, through the lair of the Lion,
         With love in her luminous eyes.”

     But Psyche, uplifting her finger,
         Said—“Sadly this star I mistrust—
         Her pallor I strangely mistrust—
     Ah, hasten!—ah, let us not linger!
         Ah, fly!—let us fly!—for we must.”
      In terror she spoke; letting sink her
         Wings till they trailed in the dust—
     In agony sobbed, letting sink her
         Plumes till they trailed in the dust—
         Till they sorrowfully trailed in the dust.

     I replied—“This is nothing but dreaming.
         Let us on, by this tremulous light!
         Let us bathe in this crystalline light!
     Its Sybillic splendor is beaming
         With Hope and in Beauty to-night—
         See!—it flickers up the sky through the night!
     Ah, we safely may trust to its gleaming,
         And be sure it will lead us aright—
     We safely may trust to a gleaming
         That cannot but guide us aright,
         Since it flickers up to Heaven through the night.”

     Thus I pacified Psyche and kissed her,
         And tempted her out of her gloom—
         And conquered her scruples and gloom;
     And we passed to the end of the vista—
         But were stopped by the door of a tomb—
         By the door of a legended tomb:—
     And I said—“What is written, sweet sister,
         On the door of this legended tomb?”
          She replied—“Ulalume—Ulalume—
         ‘T is the vault of thy lost Ulalume!”

     Then my heart it grew ashen and sober
         As the leaves that were crisped and sere—
         As the leaves that were withering and sere—
     And I cried—“It was surely October
         On <i>this</i> very night of last year,
         That I journeyed—I journeyed down here!—
         That I brought a dread burden down here—
         On this night, of all nights in the year,
         Ah, what demon has tempted me here?
     Well I know, now, this dim lake of Auber—
         This misty mid region of Weir:—
     Well I know, now, this dank tarn of Auber—
         This ghoul-haunted woodland of Weir.”
 </pre>
<p>
      1847. <a name="2151link2H_4_0018">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      TO HELEN
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     I saw thee once—once only—years ago:
     I must not say how many—but not many.
     It was a July midnight; and from out
     A full-orbed moon, that, like thine own soul, soaring,
     Sought a precipitate pathway up through heaven,
     There fell a silvery-silken veil of light,
     With quietude, and sultriness, and slumber,
     Upon the upturned faces of a thousand
     Roses that grew in an enchanted garden,
     Where no wind dared to stir, unless on tiptoe—
     Fell on the upturn’d faces of these roses
     That gave out, in return for the love-light,
     Their odorous souls in an ecstatic death—
     Fell on the upturn’d faces of these roses
     That smiled and died in this parterre, enchanted
     By thee, and by the poetry of thy presence.

     Clad all in white, upon a violet bank
     I saw thee half reclining; while the moon
     Fell on the upturn’d faces of the roses,
     And on thine own, upturn’d—alas, in sorrow!

     Was it not Fate, that, on this July midnight-
     Was it not Fate, (whose name is also Sorrow,)
     That bade me pause before that garden-gate,
     To breathe the incense of those slumbering roses?
     No footstep stirred: the hated world an slept,
     Save only thee and me. (Oh, Heaven!—oh, God!
     How my heart beats in coupling those two words!)
     Save only thee and me. I paused—I looked-
     And in an instant all things disappeared.
     (Ah, bear in mind this garden was enchanted!)

     The pearly lustre of the moon went out:
     The mossy banks and the meandering paths,
     The happy flowers and the repining trees,
     Were seen no more: the very roses’ odors
     Died in the arms of the adoring airs.
     All—all expired save thee—save less than thou:
     Save only the divine light in thine eyes-
     Save but the soul in thine uplifted eyes.
     I saw but them—they were the world to me!
     I saw but them—saw only them for hours,
     Saw only them until the moon went down.
     What wild heart-histories seemed to he enwritten

     Upon those crystalline, celestial spheres!
     How dark a woe, yet how sublime a hope!
     How silently serene a sea of pride!
     How daring an ambition; yet how deep-
     How fathomless a capacity for love!

     But now, at length, dear Dian sank from sight,
     Into a western couch of thunder-cloud;
     And thou, a ghost, amid the entombing trees
     Didst glide away. Only thine eyes remained;
     They would not go—they never yet have gone;
     Lighting my lonely pathway home that night,
     They have not left me (as my hopes have) since;
     They follow me—they lead me through the years.
     They are my ministers—yet I their slave.
     Their office is to illumine and enkindle—
     My duty, to be saved by their bright light,
     And purified in their electric fire,
     And sanctified in their elysian fire.
     They fill my soul with Beauty (which is Hope),
     And are far up in Heaven—the stars I kneel to
     In the sad, silent watches of my night;
     While even in the meridian glare of day
     I see them still—two sweetly scintillant
     Venuses, unextinguished by the sun!
</pre>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0019">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      ANNABEL LEE.
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     It was many and many a year ago,
         In a kingdom by the sea,
     That a maiden lived whom you may know
         By the name of ANNABEL LEE;—
     And this maiden she lived with no other thought
         Than to love and be loved by me.

     <i>I</i> was a child and <i>She</i> was a child,
         In this kingdom by the sea,
     But we loved with a love that was more than love—
         I and my ANNABEL LEE—
     With a love that the wing?d seraphs of Heaven
         Coveted her and me.

     And this was the reason that, long ago,
         In this kingdom by the sea,
     A wind blew out of a cloud by night
         Chilling my ANNABEL LEE;
     So that her high-born kinsmen came
         And bore her away from me,
     To shut her up, in a sepulchre
         In this kingdom by the sea.

     The angels, not half so happy in Heaven,
         Went envying her and me;
     Yes! that was the reason (as all men know,
         In this kingdom by the sea)
     That the wind came out of the cloud, chilling
         And killing my ANNABEL LEE.

     But our love it was stronger by far than the love
         Of those who were older than we—
         Of many far wiser than we—
     And neither the angels in Heaven above
         Nor the demons down under the sea
     Can ever dissever my soul from the soul
         Of the beautiful ANNABEL LEE:—

     For the moon never beams without bringing me dreams
         Of the beautiful ANNABEL LEE;
     And the stars never rise but I see the bright eyes
         Of the beautiful ANNABEL LEE;
     And so, all the night-tide, I lie down by the side
     Of my darling, my darling, my life and my bride
         In her sepulchre there by the sea—
         In her tomb by the side of the sea.
</pre>
<p>
      1849. <a name="2151link2H_4_0020">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      A VALENTINE.
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     For her this rhyme is penned, whose luminous eyes,
         Brightly expressive as the twins of Loeda,
     Shall find her own sweet name, that, nestling lies
         Upon the page, enwrapped from every reader.
     Search narrowly the lines!—they hold a treasure
         Divine—a talisman—an amulet
     That must be worn <i>at heart</i>. Search well the measure—
         The words—the syllables! Do not forget
     The trivialest point, or you may lose your labor!
         And yet there is in this no Gordian knot

     Which one might not undo without a sabre,
         If one could merely comprehend the plot.
     Enwritten upon the leaf where now are peering
         Eyes scintillating soul, there lie <i>perdus</i>
     Three eloquent words oft uttered in the hearing
         Of poets, by poets—as the name is a poet’s, too.
     Its letters, although naturally lying
         Like the knight Pinto—Mendez Ferdinando—
     Still form a synonym for Truth—Cease trying!
         You will not read the riddle, though you do the best <i>you</i> can do.
</pre>
<p>
      1846.
    </p>
<p>
      [To discover the names in this and the following poem read the first
      letter of the first line in connection with the second letter of the
      second line, the third letter of the third line, the fourth of the fourth
      and so on to the end.]
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0021">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      AN ENIGMA
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     “Seldom we find,” says Solomon Don Dunce,
         “Half an idea in the profoundest sonnet.
     Through all the flimsy things we see at once
         As easily as through a Naples bonnet—
         Trash of all trash!—how <i>can</i> a lady don it?
     Yet heavier far than your Petrarchan stuff-
     Owl-downy nonsense that the faintest puff
         Twirls into trunk-paper the while you con it.”
      And, veritably, Sol is right enough.
     The general tuckermanities are arrant
     Bubbles—ephemeral and <i>so</i> transparent—
         But <i>this</i> is, now,—you may depend upon it—
     Stable, opaque, immortal—all by dint
     Of the dear names that lie concealed within ‘t.
</pre>
<p>
      1847. TO MY MOTHER
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     Because I feel that, in the Heavens above,
         The angels, whispering to one another,
     Can find, among their burning terms of love,
         None so devotional as that of “Mother,”
      Therefore by that dear name I long have called you—
         You who are more than mother unto me,
     And fill my heart of hearts, where Death installed you
         In setting my Virginia’s spirit free.
     My mother—my own mother, who died early,
         Was but the mother of myself; but you
     Are mother to the one I loved so dearly,
         And thus are dearer than the mother I knew
     By that infinity with which my wife
         Was dearer to my soul than its soul-life.
</pre>
<p>
      1849.
    </p>
<p>
      [The above was addressed to the poet’s mother-in-law, Mrs. Clemm—Ed.]
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0022">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      FOR ANNIE
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     Thank Heaven! the crisis—
         The danger is past,
     And the lingering illness
         Is over at last—
     And the fever called “Living”
          Is conquered at last.

     Sadly, I know
         I am shorn of my strength,
     And no muscle I move
         As I lie at full length—
     But no matter!—I feel
         I am better at length.

     And I rest so composedly,
         Now, in my bed,
     That any beholder
         Might fancy me dead—
     Might start at beholding me,
         Thinking me dead.

     The moaning and groaning,
         The sighing and sobbing,
     Are quieted now,
         With that horrible throbbing
     At heart:—ah, that horrible,
         Horrible throbbing!

     The sickness—the nausea—
         The pitiless pain—
     Have ceased, with the fever
         That maddened my brain—
     With the fever called “Living”
          That burned in my brain.

     And oh! of all tortures
         <i>That</i> torture the worst
     Has abated—the terrible
         Torture of thirst
     For the naphthaline river
         Of Passion accurst:—
     I have drank of a water
         That quenches all thirst:—

     Of a water that flows,
         With a lullaby sound,
     From a spring but a very few
         Feet under ground—
     From a cavern not very far
         Down under ground.

     And ah! let it never
         Be foolishly said
     That my room it is gloomy
         And narrow my bed;
     For man never slept
         In a different bed—
     And, to <i>sleep</i>, you must slumber
         In just such a bed.

     My tantalized spirit
         Here blandly reposes,
     Forgetting, or never
         Regretting its roses—
     Its old agitations
         Of myrtles and roses:

     For now, while so quietly
         Lying, it fancies
     A holier odor
         About it, of pansies—
     A rosemary odor,
         Commingled with pansies—
     With rue and the beautiful
         Puritan pansies.

     And so it lies happily,
         Bathing in many
     A dream of the truth
         And the beauty of Annie—
     Drowned in a bath
         Of the tresses of Annie.

     She tenderly kissed me,
         She fondly caressed,
     And then I fell gently
         To sleep on her breast—
     Deeply to sleep
         From the heaven of her breast.

     When the light was extinguished,
         She covered me warm,
     And she prayed to the angels
         To keep me from harm—
     To the queen of the angels
         To shield me from harm.

     And I lie so composedly,
         Now in my bed,
     (Knowing her love)
         That you fancy me dead—
     And I rest so contentedly,
         Now in my bed,
     (With her love at my breast)
         That you fancy me dead—
     That you shudder to look at me,
         Thinking me dead:—

     But my heart it is brighter
         Than all of the many
     Stars in the sky,
         For it sparkles with Annie—
     It glows with the light
         Of the love of my Annie—
     With the thought of the light
         Of the eyes of my Annie.
</pre>
<p>
      1849. <a name="2151link2H_4_0023">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      TO F——.
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     BELOVED! amid the earnest woes
         That crowd around my earthly path—
     (Drear path, alas! where grows
     Not even one lonely rose)—
         My soul at least a solace hath
     In dreams of thee, and therein knows
     An Eden of bland repose.

     And thus thy memory is to me
         Like some enchanted far-off isle
     In some tumultuos sea—
     Some ocean throbbing far and free
         With storms—but where meanwhile
     Serenest skies continually
         Just o’re that one bright island smile.
</pre>
<p>
      1845. <a name="2151link2H_4_0024">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      TO FRANCES S. OSGOOD
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     THOU wouldst be loved?—then let thy heart
         From its present pathway part not!
     Being everything which now thou art,
         Be nothing which thou art not.
     So with the world thy gentle ways,
         Thy grace, thy more than beauty,
     Shall be an endless theme of praise,
         And love—a simple duty.
</pre>
<p>
      1845. <a name="2151link2H_4_0025">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      ELDORADO.
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
         Gaily bedight,
         A gallant knight,
     In sunshine and in shadow,
         Had journeyed long,
         Singing a song,
     In search of Eldorado.

         But he grew old—
         This knight so bold—
     And o’er his heart a shadow
         Fell, as he found
         No spot of ground
     That looked like Eldorado.

         And, as his strength
         Failed him at length,
     He met a pilgrim shadow—
         ‘Shadow,’ said he,
         ‘Where can it be—
     This land of Eldorado?’

         ‘Over the Mountains
         Of the Moon,
     Down the Valley of the Shadow,
         Ride, boldly ride,’
         The shade replied,—
     ‘If you seek for Eldorado!’
</pre>
<p>
      1849.
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
                     EULALIE

                          I  DWELT alone
                         In a world of moan,
             And my soul was a stagnant tide,
     Till the fair and gentle Eulalie became my blushing bride—
     Till the yellow-haired young Eulalie became my smiling bride.

                         Ah, less—less bright
                         The stars of the night
                 Than the eyes of the radiant girl!
                         And never a flake
                         That the vapour can make
                 With the moon-tints of purple and pearl,
     Can vie with the modest Eulalie’s most unregarded curl—
     Can compare with the bright-eyed Eulalie’s most humble and careless curl.

                    Now Doubt—now Pain
                    Come never again,
            For her soul gives me sigh for sigh,
                    And all day long
                    Shines, bright and strong,
            Astart? within the sky,
     While ever to her dear Eulalie upturns her matron eye—
     While ever to her young Eulalie upturns her violet eye.
</pre>
<p>
      1845.
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
      A DREAM WITHIN A DREAM

     Take this kiss upon the brow!
     And, in parting from you now,
     Thus much let me avow—
     You are not wrong, who deem
     That my days have been a dream;
     Yet if hope has flown away
     In a night, or in a day,
     In a vision, or in none,
     Is it therefore the less <i>gone</i>?
     <i>All</i> that we see or seem
     Is but a dream within a dream.

     I stand amid the roar
     Of a surf-tormented shore,
     And I hold within my hand
     Grains of the golden sand—
     How few! yet how they creep
     Through my fingers to the deep,
     While I weep—while I weep!
     O God! can I not grasp
     Them with a tighter clasp?
     O God! can I not save
     <i>One</i> from the pitiless wave?
     Is <i>all</i> that we see or seem
     But a dream within a dream?.
</pre>
<p>
      1849 <a name="2151link2H_4_0026">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      TO MARIE LOUISE (SHEW)
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     Of all who hail thy presence as the morning—
     Of all to whom thine absence is the night—
     The blotting utterly from out high heaven
     The sacred sun—of all who, weeping, bless thee
     Hourly for hope—for life—ah! above all,
     For the resurrection of deep-buried faith
     In Truth—in Virtue—in Humanity—
     Of all who, on Despair’s unhallowed bed
     Lying down to die, have suddenly arisen
     At thy soft-murmured words, “Let there be light!”
      At the soft-murmured words that were fulfilled
     In the seraphic glancing of thine eyes—
     Of all who owe thee most—whose gratitude
     Nearest resembles worship—oh, remember
     The truest—the most fervently devoted,
     And think that these weak lines are written by him—
     By him who, as he pens them, thrills to think
     His spirit is communing with an angel’s.
</pre>
<p>
      1847. <a name="2151link2H_4_0027">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      TO MARIE LOUISE (SHEW)
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     NOT long ago, the writer of these lines,
     In the mad pride of intellectuality,
     Maintained “the power of words”—denied that ever
     A thought arose within the human brain
     Beyond the utterance of the human tongue:
     And now, as if in mockery of that boast,
     Two words-two foreign soft dissyllables—
     Italian tones, made only to be murmured
     By angels dreaming in the moonlit “dew
     That hangs like chains of pearl on Hermon hill,”—
     Have stirred from out the abysses of his heart,
     Unthought-like thoughts that are the souls of thought,
     Richer, far wider, far diviner visions
     Than even the seraph harper, Israfel,
     (Who has “the sweetest voice of all God’s creatures”)
     Could hope to utter. And I! my spells are broken.
     The pen falls powerless from my shivering hand.
     With thy dear name as text, though bidden by thee,
     I can not write-I can not speak or think—
     Alas, I can not feel; for ‘tis not feeling,
     This standing motionless upon the golden
     Threshold of the wide-open gate of dreams,
     Gazing, entranced, adown the gorgeous vista,
     And thrilling as I see, upon the right,
     Upon the left, and all the way along,
     Amid empurpled vapors, far away
     To where the prospect terminates-<i>thee only!</i>
</pre>
<p>
      1848. <a name="2151link2H_4_0028">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      THE CITY IN THE SEA.
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     Lo! Death has reared himself a throne
     In a strange city lying alone
     Far down within the dim West,
     Wherethe good and the bad and the worst and the best
     Have gone to their eternal rest.
     There shrines and palaces and towers
     (Time-eaten towers that tremble not!)
     Resemble nothing that is ours.
     Around, by lifting winds forgot,
     Resignedly beneath the sky
     The melancholy waters lie.

     No rays from the holy heaven come down
     On the long night-time of that town;
     But light from out the lurid sea
     Streams up the turrets silently—
     Gleams up the pinnacles far and free—
     Up domes—up spires—up kingly halls—
     Up fanes—up Babylon-like walls—
     Up shadowy long-forgotten bowers
     Of scultured ivy and stone flowers—
     Up many and many a marvellous shrine
     Whose wreathed friezes intertwine
     The viol, the violet, and the vine.

     Resignedly beneath the sky
     The melancholy waters lie.
     So blend the turrets and shadows there
     That all seem pendulous in air,
     While from a proud tower in the town
     Death looks gigantically down.

     There open fanes and gaping graves
     Yawn level with the luminous waves;
     But not the riches there that lie
     In each idol’s diamond eye—
     Not the gaily-jewelled dead
     Tempt the waters from their bed;
     For no ripples curl, alas!
     Along that wilderness of glass—
     No swellings tell that winds may be
     Upon some far-off happier sea—
     No heavings hint that winds have been
     On seas less hideously serene.

     But lo, a stir is in the air!
     The wave—there is a movement there!
     As if the towers had thrown aside,
     In slightly sinking, the dull tide—
     As if their tops had feebly given
     A void within the filmy Heaven.
     The waves have now a redder glow—
     The hours are breathing faint and low—
     And when, amid no earthly moans,
     Down, down that town shall settle hence,
     Hell, rising from a thousand thrones,
     Shall do it reverence.
</pre>
<p>
      1845. <a name="2151link2H_4_0029">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      THE SLEEPER.
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     At midnight in the month of June,
     I stand beneath the mystic moon.
     An opiate vapour, dewy, dim,
     Exhales from out her golden rim,
     And, softly dripping, drop by drop,
     Upon the quiet mountain top.
     Steals drowsily and musically
     Into the univeral valley.
     The rosemary nods upon the grave;
     The lily lolls upon the wave;
     Wrapping the fog about its breast,
     The ruin moulders into rest;
     Looking like Lethe, see! the lake
     A conscious slumber seems to take,
     And would not, for the world, awake.
     All Beauty sleeps!—and lo! where lies
     (Her easement open to the skies)
     Irene, with her Destinies!

     Oh, lady bright! can it be right—
     This window open to the night?
     The wanton airs, from the tree-top,
     Laughingly through the lattice drop—
     The bodiless airs, a wizard rout,
     Flit through thy chamber in and out,
     And wave the curtain canopy
     So fitfully—so fearfully—
     Above the closed and fringed lid
     ‘Neath which thy slumb’ring sould lies hid,
     That o’er the floor and down the wall,
     Like ghosts the shadows rise and fall!
     Oh, lady dear, hast thous no fear?
     Why and what art thou dreaming here?
     Sure thou art come p’er far-off seas,
     A wonder to these garden trees!
     Strange is thy pallor! strange thy dress!
     Strange, above all, thy length of tress,
     And this all solemn silentness!

     The lady sleeps! Oh, may her sleep,
     Which is enduring, so be deep!
     Heaven have her in its sacred keep!
     This chamber changed for one more holy,
     This bed for one more melancholy,
     I pray to God that she may lie
     Forever with unopened eye,
     While the dim sheeted ghosts go by!

     My love, she sleeps! Oh, may her sleep,
     As it is lasting, so be deep!
     Soft may the worms about her creep!
     Far in the forest, dim and old,
     For her may some tall vault unfold—
     Some vault that oft hath flung its black
     And winged pannels fluttering back,
     Triumphant, o’er the crested palls,
     Of her grand family funerals—
     Some sepulchre, remote, alone,
     Against whose portal she hath thrown,
     In childhood, many an idle stone—
     Some tomb fromout whose sounding door
     She ne’er shall force an echo more,
     Thrilling to think, poor child of sin!
     It was the dead who groaned within.
</pre>
<p>
      1845.
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
 BRIDAL BALLAD.

     THE ring is on my hand,
         And the wreath is on my brow;
     Satins and jewels grand
     Are all at my command,
         And I am happy now.

     And my lord he loves me well;
         But, when first he breathed his vow,
     I felt my bosom swell—
     For the words rang as a knell,
     And the voice seemed <i>his</i> who fell
     In the battle down the dell,
         And who is happy now.

     But he spoke to re-asure me,
         And he kissed my pallid brow,
     While a reverie came o’re me,
     And to the church-yard bore me,
     And I sighed to him before me,
     Thinking him dead D’Elormie,
         “Oh, I am happy now!”

     And thus the words were spoken,
         And this the plighted vow,
     And, though my faith be broken,
     And, though my heart be broken,
     Behold the golden token
         That <i>proves</i> me happy now!

     Would God I could awaken!
         For I dream I know not how,
     And my soul is sorely shaken
     Lest an evil step be taken,—
     Lest the dead who is forsaken
         May not be happy now.
</pre>
<p>
      1845. <a name="2151link2H_NOTE">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      NOTES
    </h2>
<p>
      1. “The Raven” was first published on the 29th January, 1845,
      in the New York “Evening Mirror"-a paper its author was then
      assistant editor of. It was prefaced by the following words, understood to
      have been written by N. P. Willis: “We are permitted to copy (in
      advance of publication) from the second number of the “American
      Review,” the following remarkable poem by Edgar Poe. In our opinion,
      it is the most effective single example of ‘fugitive poetry’
      ever published in this country, and unsurpassed in English poetry for
      subtle conception, masterly ingenuity of versification, and consistent
      sustaining of imaginative lift and ‘pokerishness.’ It is one
      of those ‘dainties bred in a book’ which we feed on. It will
      stick to the memory of everybody who reads it.” In the February
      number of the “American Review” the poem was published as by
      “Quarles,” and it was introduced by the following note,
      evidently suggested if not written by Poe himself.
    </p>
<p>
      [“The following lines from a correspondent-besides the deep, quaint
      strain of the sentiment, and the curious introduction of some ludicrous
      touches amidst the serious and impressive, as was doubtless intended by
      the author-appears to us one of the most felicitous specimens of unique
      rhyming which has for some time met our eye. The resources of English
      rhythm for varieties of melody, measure, and sound, producing
      corresponding diversities of effect, having been thoroughly studied, much
      more perceived, by very few poets in the language. While the classic
      tongues, especially the Greek, possess, by power of accent, several
      advantages for versification over our own, chiefly through greater
      abundance of spondaic: feet, we have other and very great advantages of
      sound by the modern usage of rhyme. Alliteration is nearly the only effect
      of that kind which the ancients had in common with us. It will be seen
      that much of the melody of ‘The Raven’ arises from
      alliteration, and the studious use of similar sounds in unusual places. In
      regard to its measure, it may be noted that if all the verses were like
      the second, they might properly be placed merely in short lines, producing
      a not uncommon form; but the presence in all the others of one line-mostly
      the second in the verse” (stanza?)—“which flows
      continuously, with only an aspirate pause in the middle, like that before
      the short line in the Sapphic Adonic, while the fifth has at the middle
      pause no similarity of sound with any part besides, gives the
      versification an entirely different effect. We could wish the capacities
      of our noble language in prosody were better understood.”—ED.
      “Am. Rev.”]
    </p>
<p>
      2. The bibliographical history of “The Bells” is curious. The
      subject, and some lines of the original version, having been suggested by
      the poet’s friend, Mrs. Shew, Poe, when he wrote out the first draft
      of the poem, headed it, “The Bells, By Mrs. M. A. Shew.” This
      draft, now the editor’s property, consists of only seventeen lines,
      and read thus:
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
                       I.

     The bells!-ah, the bells!
     The little silver bells!
     How fairy-like a melody there floats
     From their throats—
     From their merry little throats—
     From the silver, tinkling throats
     Of the bells, bells, bells—
     Of the bells!

                       II.

     The bells!-ah, the bells!

     The heavy iron bells!
     How horrible a monody there floats
     From their throats—
     From their deep-toned throats—
     From their melancholy throats!
     How I shudder at the notes Of the bells, bells, bells—
     Of the bells!
</pre>
<p>
      In the autumn of 1848 Poe added another line to this poem, and sent it to
      the editor of the “Union Magazine.” It was not published. So,
      in the following February, the poet forwarded to the same periodical a
      much enlarged and altered transcript. Three months having elapsed without
      publication, another revision of the poem, similar to the current version,
      was sent, and in the following October was published in the “Union
      Magazine.”
    </p>
<p>
      3. This poem was first published in Colton’s “American Review”
      for December, 1847, as “To—Ulalume: a Ballad.” Being
      reprinted immediately in the “Home Journal,” it was copied
      into various publications with the name of the editor, N. P. Willis,
      appended, and was ascribed to him. When first published, it contained the
      following additional stanza which Poe subsequently, at the suggestion of
      Mrs. Whitman, wisely suppressed:
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     Said we then—we two, then—“Ah, can it
     Have been that the woodlandish ghouls—
     The pitiful, the merciful ghouls—
     To bar up our path and to ban it
     From the secret that lies in these wolds—
     Had drawn up the spectre of a planet
     From the limbo of lunary souls—
     This sinfully scintillant planet
     From the Hell of the planetary souls?”
 </pre>
<p>
      4. “To Helen!” (Mrs. S. Helen Whitman) was not published until
      November, 1848, although written several months earlier. It first appeared
      in the “Union Magazine,” and with the omission, contrary to
      the knowledge or desire of Poe, of the line, “Oh, God! oh, Heaven—how
      my heart beats in coupling those two words.”
    </p>
<p>
      5. “Annabel Lee” was written early in 1849, and is evidently
      an expression of the poet’s undying love for his deceased bride,
      although at least one of his lady admirers deemed it a response to her
      admiration. Poe sent a copy of the ballad to the “Union Magazine,”
      in which publication it appeared in January, 1850, three months after the
      author’s death. While suffering from “hope deferred” as
      to its fate, Poe presented a copy of “Annabel Lee” to the
      editor of the “Southern Literary Messenger,” who published it
      in the November number of his periodical, a month after Poe’s death.
      In the meantime the poet’s own copy, left among his papers, passed
      into the hands of the person engaged to edit his works, and he quoted the
      poem in an obituary of Poe, in the New York “Tribune,” before
      any one else had an opportunity of publishing it.
    </p>
<p>
      6. “A Valentine,” one of three poems addressed to Mrs. Osgood,
      appears to have been written early in 1846.
    </p>
<p>
      7. “An Enigma,” addressed to Mrs. Sarah Anna Lewis (“Stella”),
      was sent to that lady in a letter, in November, 1847, and the following
      March appeared in Sartain’s “Union Magazine.”
    </p>
<p>
      8. The sonnet, “To My Mother” (Maria Clemm), was sent for
      publication to the short-lived “Flag of our Union,” early in
      1849,’ but does not appear to have been issued until after its
      author’s death, when it appeared in the “Leaflets of Memory”
      for 1850.
    </p>
<p>
      9. “For Annie” was first published in the “Flag of our
      Union,” in the spring of 1849. Poe, annoyed at some misprints in
      this issue, shortly afterwards caused a corrected copy to be inserted in
      the “Home Journal.”
    </p>
<p>
      10. “To F——” (Frances Sargeant Osgood) appeared in
      the “Broadway journal” for April, 1845. These lines are but
      slightly varied from those inscribed “To Mary,” in the “Southern
      Literary Messenger” for July, 1835, and subsequently republished,
      with the two stanzas transposed, in “Graham’s Magazine”
      for March, 1842, as “To One Departed.”
    </p>
<p>
      11. “To F——s S. O—d,” a portion of the poet’s
      triune tribute to Mrs. Osgood, was published in the “Broadway
      Journal” for September, 1845. The earliest version of these lines
      appeared in the “Southern Literary Messenger” for September,
      1835, as “Lines written in an Album,” and was addressed to
      Eliza White, the proprietor’s daughter. Slightly revised, the poem
      reappeared in Burton’s “Gentleman’s Magazine” for
      August, 1839, as “To—.”
    </p>
<p>
      12. Although “Eldorado” was published during Poe’s
      lifetime, in 1849, in the “Flag of our Union,” it does not
      appear to have ever received the author’s finishing touches.
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0031">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      POEMS OF MANHOOD
    </h2>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0032">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      LENORE
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     AH broken is the golden bowl! the spirit flown forever!
     Let the bell toll!—a saintly soul floats on the Stygian river;
     And, Guy De Vere, hast <i>thou</i> no tear?—weep now or never more!
     See! on yon drear and rigid bier low lies thy love, Lenore!
     Come! let the burial rite be read—the funeral song be sung!—
     An anthem for the queenliest dead that ever died so young—
     A dirge for her the doubly dead in that she died so young.

     “Wretches! ye loved her for her wealth and hated her for her pride,
     “And when she fell in feeble health, ye blessed her—that she died!
     “How shall the ritual, then, be read?—the requiem how be sung
     “By you—by yours, the evil eye,—by yours, the slanderous tongue
     “That did to death the innocent that died, and died so young?”

      <i>Peccavimus</i>; but rave not thus! and let a Sabbath song
     Go up to God so solemnly the dead may feel so wrong!
     The sweet Lenore hath “gone before,” with Hope, that flew beside
     Leaving thee wild for the dear child that should have been thy bride—
     For her, the fair and <i>debonair</i>, that now so lowly lies,
     The life upon her yellow hair but not within her eyes—
     The life still there, upon her hair—the death upon her eyes.

     “Avaunt! to-night my heart is light. No dirge will I upraise,
     “But waft the angel on her flight with a Paean of old days!
     “Let no bell toll!—lest her sweet soul, amid its hallowed mirth,
     “Should catch the note, as it doth float—up from the damned Earth.
     “To friends above, from fiends below, the indignant ghost is riven—
     “From Hell unto a high estate far up within the Heaven—
     “From grief and groan, to a golden throne, beside the King of Heaven.”
 </pre>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0033">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      TO ONE IN PARADISE.
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     THOU wast all that to me, love,
         For which my soul did pine—
     A green isle in the sea, love,
         A fountain and a shrine,
     All wreathed with fairy fruits and flowers,
         And all the flowers were mine.

     Ah, dream too bright to last!
         Ah, starry Hope! that didst arise
     But to be overcast!
         A voice from out the Future cries,
     “On! on!”—but o’er the Past
         (Dim gulf!) my spirit hovering lies
     Mute, motionless, aghast!

     For, alas! alas! with me
         The light of Life is o’er!
         No more—no more—no more—
     (Such language holds the solemn sea
         To the sands upon the shore)
     Shall bloom the thunder-blasted tree,
         Or the stricken eagle soar!

     And all my days are trances,
         And all my nightly dreams
     Are where thy dark eye glances,
         And where thy footstep gleams—
     In what ethereal dances,
         By what eternal streams.
</pre>
<p>
      1835. <a name="2151link2H_4_0034">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      THE COLISEUM.
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     TYPE of the antique Rome! Rich reliquary
     Of lofty contemplation left to Time
     By buried centuries of pomp and power!
     At length—at length—after so many days
     Of weary pilgrimage and burning thirst,
     (Thirst for the springs of lore that in thee lie,)
     I kneel, an altered and an humble man,
     Amid thy shadows, and so drink within
     My very soul thy grandeur, gloom, and glory!

     Vastness! and Age! and Memories of Eld!
     Silence! and Desolation! and dim Night!
     I feel ye now—I feel ye in your strength—
     O spells more sure than e’er Jud?an king
     Taught in the gardens of Gethsemane!
     O charms more potent than the rapt Chaldee
     Ever drew down from out the quiet stars!

     Here, where a hero fell, a column falls!
     Here, where the mimic eagle glared in gold,
     A midnight vigil holds the swarthy bat!
     Here, where the dames of Rome their gilded hair
     Waved to the wind, now wave the reed and thistle!
     Here, where on golden throne the monarch lolled,
     Glides, spectre-like, unto his marble home,
     Lit by the wanlight—wan light of the horned moon,
     The swift and silent lizard of the stones!

     But stay! these walls—these ivy-clad arcades—
     These mouldering plinths—these sad and blackened shafts—
     These vague entablatures—this crumbling frieze—
     These shattered cornices—this wreck—this ruin—
     These stones—alas! these gray stones—are they all—
     All of the famed, and the colossal left
     By the corrosive Hours to Fate and me?

     “Not all”—the Echoes answer me—“not all!
     “Prophetic sounds and loud, arise forever
     “From us, and from all Ruin, unto the wise,
     “As melody from Memnon to the Sun.
     “We rule the hearts of mightiest men—we rule
     “With a despotic sway all giant minds.
     “We are not impotent—we pallid stones.
     “Not all our power is gone—not all our fame—
     “Not all the magic of our high renown—
     “Not all the wonder that encircles us—
     “Not all the mysteries that in us lie—
     “Not all the memories that hang upon
     “And cling around about us as a garment,
     “Clothing us in a robe of more than glory.”
 </pre>
<p>
      1833. <a name="2151link2H_4_0035">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      THE HAUNTED PALACE.
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     IN the greenest of our valleys
         By good angels tenanted,
     Once a fair and stately palace—
         Radiant palace—reared its head.
     In the monarch Thought’s dominion—
         It stood there!
     Never seraph spread a pinion
         Over fabric half so fair.

     Banners yellow, glorious, golden,
         On its roof did float and flow,
     (This—all this—was in the olden
         Time long ago,)
     And every gentle air that dallied,
         In that sweet day,
     Along the ramparts plumed and pallid,
         A winged odour went away.

     Wanderers in that happy valley,
         Through two luminous windows, saw
     Spirits moving musically,
         To a lute’s well-tuned law,
     Round about a throne where, sitting
         (Porphyrogene)
     In state his glory well befitting,
         The ruler of the realm was seen.

     And all with pearl and ruby glowing
         Was the fair palace door,
     Through which came flowing, flowing, flowing,
         And sparkling evermore,
     A troop of Echoes, whose sweet duty
         Was but to sing,
     In voices of surpassing beauty,
         The wit and wisdom of their king.

     But evil things, in robes of sorrow,
         Assailed the monarch’s high estate.
     (Ah, let us mourn!—for never sorrow
         Shall dawn upon him desolate!)
     And round about his home the glory
         That blushed and bloomed,
     Is but a dim-remembered story
         Of the old time entombed.

     And travellers, now, within that valley,
         Through the red-litten windows see
     Vast forms, that move fantastically
         To a discordant melody,
     While, lie a ghastly rapid river,
         Through the pale door
     A hideous throng rush out forever
         And laugh—but smile no more.
</pre>
<p>
      1838. <a name="2151link2H_4_0036">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      THE CONQUEROR WORM.
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     LO! ‘tis a gala night
         Within the lonesome latter years!
     An angel throng, bewinged, bedight
         In veils, and drowned in tears,
     Sit in a theatre, to see
         A play of hopes and fears,
     While the orchestra breathes fitfully
         The music of the spheres.

     Mimes, in the form of God on high,
         Mutter and mumble low,
     And hither and thither fly—
         Mere puppets they, who come and go
     At bidding of vast formless things
         That shift the scenery to and fro,
     Flapping from out their Condor wings
        Invisible Wo!

     That motley drama—oh, be sure
         It shall not be forgot!
     With its Phantom chased for evermore,
         By a crowd that seize it not,
     Through a circle that ever returneth in
         To the self-same spot,
     And much of Madness, and more of Sin,
         And Horror the soul of the plot.

     But see, amid the mimic rout
         A crawling shape intrude!
     A blood-red thing that writhes from out
         The scenic solitude!
     It writhes!—it writhes!—with mortal pangs
         The mimes become its food,
     And the angels sob at vermin fangs
         In human gore imbued.

     Out—out are the lights—out all!
         And, over each quivering form,
     The curtain, a funeral pall,
         Comes down with the rush of a storm,
     And the angels, all pallid and wan,
         Uprising, unveiling, affirm
     That the play is the tragedy, “Man,”
          And its hero the Conqueror Worm.
</pre>
<p>
      1838. <a name="2151link2H_4_0037">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      SILENCE
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     THERE are some qualities—some incorporate things,
         That have a double life, which thus is made
     A type of that twin entity which springs
         From matter and light, evinced in solid and shade.
     There is a two-fold <i>Silence</i>—sea and shore—
         Body and soul. One dwells in lonely places,
         Newly with grass o’ergrown; some solemn graces,
     Some human memories and tearful lore,
     Render him terrorless: his name’s “No More.”
      He is the corporate Silence: dread him not!
         No power hath he of evil in himself;
     But should some urgent fate (untimely lot!)
         Bring thee to meet his shadow (nameless elf,
     That haunteth the lone regions where hath trod
     No foot of man,) commend thyself to God!
</pre>
<p>
      1840. <a name="2151link2H_4_0038">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      DREAM-LAND
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
        BY a route obscure and lonely,
         Haunted by ill angels only,
         Where an Eidolon, named NIGHT,
         On a black throne reigns upright,
         I have reached these lands but newly
         From an ultimate dim Thule—
         From a wild weird clime that lieth, sublime,
               Out of SPACE—out of TIME.

         Bottomless vales and boundless floods,
         And chasms, and caves, and Titian woods,
         With forms that no man can discover
         For the dews that drip all over;
         Mountains toppling evermore
         Into seas without a shore;
         Seas that restlessly aspire,
         Surging, unto skies of fire;
         Lakes that endlessly outspread
         Their lone waters—lone and dead,—
         Their still waters—still and chilly
         With the snows of the lolling lily.

         By the lakes that thus outspread
         Their lone waters, lone and dead,—
         Their sad waters, sad and chilly
         With the snows of the lolling lily,—
         By the mountains—near the river
         Murmuring lowly, murmuring ever,—
         By the grey woods,—by the swamp
         Where the toad and the newt encamp,—
         By the dismal tarns and pools
                 Where dwell the Ghouls,—
         By each spot the most unholy—
         In each nook most melancholy,—
         There the traveller meets aghast
         Sheeted Memories of the Past—
         Shrouded forms that start and sigh
         As they pass the wanderer by—
         White-robed forms of friends long given,
         In agony, to the Earth—and Heaven.

         For the heart whose woes are legion
         ‘Tis a peaceful, soothing region—
         For the spirit that walks in shadow
         ‘Tis—oh ‘tis an Eldorado!
         But the traveller, travelling through it,
         May not—dare not openly view it;
         Never its mysteries are exposed
         To the weak human eye unclosed;
         So wills its King, who hath forbid
         The uplifting of the fringed lid;
         And thus the sad Soul that here passes
         Beholds it but through darkened glasses.

         By a route obscure and lonely,
         Haunted by ill angels only,
         Where an Eidolon, named NIGHT,
         On a black throne reigns upright,
         I have wandered home but newly
         From this ultimate dim Thule.
</pre>
<p>
      1844. <a name="2151link2H_4_0039">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      HYMN
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     AT morn—at noon—at twilight dim—
     Maria! thou hast heard my hymn!
     In joy and wo—in good and ill—
     Mother of God, be with me still!
     When the Hours flew brightly by
     And not a cloud obscured the sky,
     My soul, lest it should truant be,
     Thy grace did guide to thine and thee;
     Now, when storms of Fate o’ercast
     Darkly my Present and my Past,
     Let my Future radiant shine
     With sweet hopes of thee and thine!
</pre>
<p>
      1835. <a name="2151link2H_4_0040">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      TO ZANTE
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     FAIR isle, that from the fairest of all flowers,
         Thy gentlest of all gentle names dost take
     How many memories of what radiant hours
         At sight of thee and thine at once awake!
     How many scenes of what departed bliss!
         How many thoughts of what entombed hopes!
     How many visions of a maiden that is
         No more—no more upon thy verdant slopes!
     No <i>more!</i> alas, that magical sad sound
         Transfomring all! Thy charms shall please <i>no more</i>—
     Thy memory <i>no more! </i>Accursed ground
         Henceforth I hold thy flower-enamelled shore,
     O hyacinthine isle! O purple Zante!
         “Isoa d’oro! Fior di Levante!”
 </pre>
<p>
      1837. <a name="2151link2H_4_0041">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      SCENES FROM “POLITIAN”
    </h2>
<h3>
      AN UNPUBLISHED DRAMA.
    </h3>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
                                 I.

              ROME.—A Hall in a Palace  Alessandra and Castiglione.

      Alessandra.  Thou art sad, Castiglione.

      Castiglione.  Sad!—not I.
  Oh, I’m the happiest, happiest man in Rome!
  A few days more, thou knowest, my Alessandra,
  Will make thee mine. Oh, I am very happy!

      Aless.  Methinks thou hast a singular way of showing
  Thy happiness!—what ails thee, cousin of mine?
  Why didst thou sigh so deeply?

      Cas.  Did I sign?
  I was not conscious of it. It is a fashion,
  A silly—a most silly fashion I have
  When I am very happy. Did I sigh?                         (sighing.)

      Aless. Thou didst. Thou art not well. Thou hast indulged
  Too much of late, and I am vexed to see it.
  Late hours and wine, Castiglione,—these
  Will ruin thee! thou art already altered—
  Thy looks are haggard—nothing so wears away
  The constitution as late hours and wine.

      Cas. (musing.)  Nothing, fair cousin, nothing—not even deep
  sorrow—
  Wears it away like evil hours and wine.
  I will amend.

      Aless. Do it! I would have thee drop
  Thy riotous company, too—fellows low born—
  Ill suit the like with old Di Broglio’s heir
  And Alessandra’s husband.

      Cas.  I will drop them.

      Aless.   Thou wilt—thou must. Attend thou also more
  To thy dress and equipage—they are over plain
  For thy lofty rank and fashion—much depends
  Upon appearances.

      Cas.  I’ll see to it.

      Aless. Then see to it!—pay more attention, sir,
  To a becoming carriage—much thou wantest
  In dignity.

      Cas.  Much, much, oh! much I want
    In proper dignity.

      Aless.(haughtily)  Thou mockest me, sir!

      Cas. (abstractedly.)  Sweet, gentle Lalage!

      Aless. Heard I aright?
  I speak to him—he speaks of Lalage!
  Sir Count! (places her hand on his shoulder) what art thou dreaming?
  he’s not well!
  What ails thee, sir?

      Cas. (startling.)  Cousin! fair cousin!—madam!
  I crave thy pardon—indeed I am not well—
  Your hand from off my shoulder, if you please.
  This air is most oppressive!—Madam—the Duke!

                                                     Enter Di Broglio.

      Di Broglio.  My son, I’ve news for thee!—hey?—what’s the
  matter? (observing Alessandra)
  I’ the pouts? Kiss her, Castiglione! kiss her,
  You dog! and make it up, I say, this minute!
  I’ve news for you both. Politian is expected
  Hourly in Rome—Politian, Earl of Leicester!
  We’ll have him at the wedding. ‘Tis his first visit
  To the imperial city.

      Aless. What! Politian
  Of Britain, Earl of Leicester?

      Di Brog.  The same, my love.
  We’ll have him at the wedding. A man quite young
  In years, but grey in fame. I have not seen him,
  But Rumour speaks of him as of a prodigy
  Pre-eminent in arts and arms, and wealth,
  And high descent. We’ll have him at the wedding.

      Aless. I have heard much of this Politian.
  Gay, volatile and giddy—is he not?
  And little given to thinking.

      Di Brog.  Far from it, love.
  No branch, they say, of all philosophy
  So deep abstruse he has not mastered it.
  Learned as few are learned.

      Aless. ‘Tis very strange!
  I have known men have seen Politian
  And sought his company. They speak of him
  As of one who entered madly into life,
  Drinking the cup of pleasure to the dregs.

      Cas.  Ridiculous! Now I have seen Politian
  And know him well—nor learned nor mirthful he.
  He is a dreamer and a man shut out
  From common passions.

      Di Brog.  Children, we disagree.
  Let us go forth and taste the fragrant air
  Of the garden. Did I dream, or did I hear
  Politian was a melancholy man?                             (exeunt.)

                            II

    ROME. A Lady’s apartment, with a window open and looking into a garden.
  Lalage, in deep mourning, reading at a table on which lie some books and a
  hand mirror. In the background Jacinta (a servant maid) leans carelessly
  upon a chair.

      Lal. [Lalage] Jacinta! is it thou?

      Jac. [Jacinta] (pertly.) Yes, Ma’am, I’m here.

      Lal.   I did not know, Jacinta, you were in waiting.
  Sit down!—Let not my presence trouble you—
  Sit down!—for I am humble, most humble.

      Jac. (aside.) ‘Tis time.
  (Jacinta seats herself in a side-long manner upon the chair, resting her
  elbows upon the back, and regarding her mistress with a contemptuous look.
  Lalage continues to read. )

      Lal. “It in another climate, so he said,
  “Bore a bright golden flower, but not i’ this soil!”
   (pauses—turns over some leaves, and resumes)
  “No lingering winters there, nor snow, nor shower—
  “But Ocean ever to refresh mankind
  “Breathes the shrill spirit of the western wind.”
   O, beautiful!—most beautiful—how like
  To what my fevered soul doth dream of Heaven!
  O happy land (pauses) She died!—the maiden died!
  A still more happy maiden who couldst die!
  Jacinta!
  (Jacinta returns no answer, and Lalage presently resumes.)
  Again!—a similar tale
  Told of a beauteous dame beyond the sea!
  Thus speaketh one Ferdinand in the words of the play—
  “She died full young”—one Bossola answers him—
  “I think not so—her infelicity
  “Seemed to have years too many”—Ah luckless lady!
  Jacinta! (still no answer)

      Here ‘s a far sterner story,
  But like—oh, very like in its despair—
  Of that Egyptian queen, winning so easily
  A thousand hearts—losing at length her own.
  She died. Thus endeth the history—and her maids
  Lean over and weep—two gentle maids
  With gentle names—Eiros and Charmion!
  Rainbow and Dove!——Jacinta!

      Jac. (pettishly.) Madam, what is it?

      Lal.  Wilt thou, my good Jacinta, be so kind
  As go down in the library and bring me
  The Holy Evangelists.

      Jac. Pshaw!   (exit.)

      Lal. If there be balm
  For the wounded spirit in Gilead it is there!
  Dew in the night time of my bitter trouble
  Will there be found—“dew sweeter far than that
  Which hangs like chains of pearl on Hermon hill.”
   (re-enter Jacinta, and throws a volume on the table.)
  There, ma’am, ‘s the book. Indeed she is very troublesome.  (aside.)

      Lal. (astonished.)  What didst thou say, Jacinta? Have I done aught
  To grieve thee or to vex thee?—I am sorry.
  For thou hast served me long and ever been
  Trust-worthy and respectful.                   (resumes her reading.)

      Jac. I can’t believe
  She has any more jewels—no—no—she gave me all.    (aside.)

      Lal. What didst thou say, Jacinta? Now I bethink me
  Thou hast not spoken lately of thy wedding.
  How fares good Ugo?—and when is it to be?
  Can I do aught?—is there no farther aid
  Thou needest, Jacinta?

      Jac. Is there no farther aid!
  That’s meant for me. (aside) I’m sure, madam, you need not
  Be always throwing those jewels in my teeth.

      Lal. Jewels! Jacinta,—now indeed, Jacinta,
  I thought not of the jewels.

      Jac. Oh! perhaps not!
  But then I might have sworn it. After all,
  There ‘s Ugo says the ring is only paste,
  For he ‘s sure the Count Castiglione never
  Would have given a real diamond to such as you;
  And at the best I’m certain, Madam, you cannot
  Have use for jewels now. But I might have sworn it.          (exit.)
  (Lalage bursts into tears and leans her head upon the table—after a
  short pause raises it.)

      Lal.  Poor Lalage!—and is it come to this?
  Thy servant maid!—but courage!—‘tis but a viper
  Whom thou hast cherished to sting thee to the soul!
  (taking up the mirror)
  Ha! here at least ‘s a friend—too much a friend
  In earlier days—a friend will not deceive thee.
  Fair mirror and true! now tell me (for thou canst)
  A tale—a pretty tale—and heed thou not
  Though it be rife with woe: It answers me.
  It speaks of sunken eyes, and wasted cheeks,
  And Beauty long deceased—remembers me
  Of Joy departed—Hope, the Seraph Hope,
  Inurned and entombed:—now, in a tone
  Low, sad, and solemn, but most audible,
  Whispers of early grave untimely yawning
  For ruined maid. Fair mirror and true—thou liest not!
  Thou hast no end to gain—no heart to break—
  Castiglione lied who said he loved—
  Thou true—he false!—false!—false!
  (While she speaks, a monk enters her apartment, and approaches
  unobserved.)

      Monk. Refuge thou hast,
  Sweet daughter, in Heaven. Think of eternal things!
  Give up thy soul to penitence, and pray!

      Lal. (arising hurriedly.)  I cannot pray!—My soul is at war
  with God!
  The frightful sounds of merriment below
  Disturb my senses—go! I cannot pray—
  The sweet airs from the garden worry me!
  Thy presence grieves me—go!—thy priestly raiment
  Fills me with dread—thy ebony crucifix
  With horror and awe!

      Monk. Think of thy precious soul!

      Lal.  Think of my early days!—think of my father
  And mother in Heaven think of our quiet home,
  And the rivulet that ran before the door!
  Think of my little sisters!—think of them!
  And think of me!—think of my trusting love
  And confidence—his vows—my ruin—think—think
  Of my unspeakable misery!—begone!
  Yet stay! yet stay!—what was it thou saidst of prayer
  And penitence? Didst thou not speak of faith
  And vows before the throne?

      Monk.  I did.

      Lal. Lal. ‘Tis well.
  There is a vow were fitting should be made—
  A sacred vow, imperative, and urgent,
  A solemn vow!

      Monk. Daughter, this zeal is well!

      Lal.  Father, this zeal is anything but well!
  Hast thou a crucifix fit for this thing?
  A crucifix whereon to register
  This sacred vow?                             (he hands her his own)
  Not that—Oh! no!—no!—no!                            (shuddering)
  Not that! Not that!—I tell thee, holy man,
  Thy raiments and thy ebony cross affright me!
  Stand back! I have a crucifix myself,—
  I have a crucifix Methinks ‘twere fitting
  The deed—the vow—the symbol of the deed—
  And the deed’s register should tally, father!

                  (draws a cross-handled dagger, and raises it on high)
  Behold the cross wherewith a vow like mine
  Is written in Heaven!

      Monk. Thy words are madness, daughter,
  And speak a purpose unholy—thy lips are livid—
  Thine eyes are wild—tempt not the wrath divine!
  Pause ere too late!—oh, be not—be not rash!
  Swear not the oath—oh, swear it not!

      Lal. ‘Tis sworn!

                          III.

        An apartment in a Palace. Politian and Baldazzar.

       Baldazzar.———Arouse thee now, Politian!
  Thou must not—nay indeed, indeed, shalt not
  Give away unto these humors. Be thyself!
  Shake off the idle fancies that beset thee,
  And live, for now thou diest!

       Politian.  Not so, Baldazzar! Surely I live.

       Bal. Politian, it doth grieve me
  To see thee thus.

      Pol.  Baldazzar, it doth grieve me
  To give thee cause for grief, my honoured friend.
  Command me, sir! what wouldst thou have me do?
  At thy behest I will shake off that nature
  Which from my, forefathers I did inherit,
  Which with my mother’s milk I did imbibe,
  And be no more Politian, but some other.
  Command me, sir!

      Bal.  To the field, then—to the field—
  To the senate or the field.

      Pol. Alas! Alas!
  There is an imp would follow me even there!
  There is an imp hath followed me even there!
  There is—what voice was that?

      Bal.  I heard it not.
  I heard not any voice except thine own,
  And the echo of thine own.

      Pol.  Then I but dreamed.

      Bal.  Give not thy soul to dreams: the camp—the court,
  Befit thee—Fame awaits thee—Glory calls—
  And her the trumpet-tongued thou wilt not hear
  In hearkening to imaginary sounds
  And phantom voices.

      Pol.  It is a phantom voice!
  Didst thou not hear it then?

      Bal.  I heard it not.

      Pol.  Thou heardst it not!—Baldazaar, speak no more
  To me, Politian, of thy camps and courts.
  Oh! I am sick, sick, sick, even unto death,
  Of the hollow and high-sounding vanities
  Of the populous Earth! Bear with me yet awhile!
  We have been boys together—schoolfellows—
  And now are friends—yet shall not be so long—
  For in the eternal city thou shalt do me
  A kind and gentle office, and a Power—
  A Power august, benignant and supreme—
  Shall then absolve thee of all further duties
  Unto thy friend.

      Bal.  Thou speakest a fearful riddle
  I will not understand.

      Pol.  Yet now as Fate
  Approaches, and the Hours are breathing low,
  The sands of Time are changed to golden grains,
  And dazzle me, Baldazzar. Alas! alas!
  I cannot die, having within my heart
  So keen a relish for the beautiful
  As hath been kindled within it. Methinks the air
  Is balmier now than it was wont to be—
  Rich melodies are floating in the winds—
  A rarer loveliness bedecks the earth—
  And with a holier lustre the quiet moon
  Sitteth in Heaven.—Hist! hist! thou canst not say
  Thou hearest not now, Baldazzar?

      Bal.  Indeed I hear not.

      Pol.  Not hear it!—listen now!—listen!—the faintest sound
  And yet the sweetest that ear ever heard!
  A lady’s voice!—and sorrow in the tone!
  Baldazzar, it oppresses me like a spell!
  Again!—again!—how solemnly it falls
  Into my heart of hearts! that eloquent voice
  Surely I never heard—yet it were well
  Had I but heard it with its thrilling tones
  In earlier days!

      Bal.  I myself hear it now.
  Be still!—the voice, if I mistake not greatly,
  Proceeds from yonder lattice—which you may see
  Very plainly through the window—it belongs,
  Does it not? unto this palace of the Duke.
  The singer is undoubtedly beneath
  The roof of his Excellency—and perhaps
  Is even that Alessandra of whom he spoke
  As the betrothed of Castiglione,
  His son and heir.

      Pol.  Be still!—it comes again!

      Voice        “And is thy heart so strong
  (very faintly)   As for to leave me thus
              Who hath loved thee so long

              In wealth and woe among?
              And is thy heart so strong
              As for to leave me thus?
                  Say nay—say nay!”

      Bal.  The song is English, and I oft have heard it
  In merry England—never so plaintively—
  Hist! hist! it comes again!

      Voice            “Is it so strong
  (more loudly)    As for to leave me thus
              Who hath loved thee so long
              In wealth and woe among?
              And is thy heart so strong
              As for to leave me thus?
                  Say nay—say nay!”

      Bal.  ‘Tis hushed and all is still!

      Pol.  All is not still!

      Bal.  Let us go down.

      Pol.  Go down, Baldazzar, go!

      Bal.  The hour is growing late—the Duke awaits use—
  Thy presence is expected in the hall
  Below. What ails thee, Earl Politian?

      Voice           “Who hath loved thee so long
  (distinctly)        In wealth and woe among,

                          And is thy heart so strong?

                               Say nay—say nay!”

      Bal.  Let us descend!—‘tis time. Politian, give
  These fancies to the wind. Remember, pray,
  Your bearing lately savored much of rudeness
  Unto the Duke. Arouse thee! and remember

      Pol.  Remember? I do. Lead on! I do remember.

                                                  (going.)
  Let us descend. Believe me I would give,
  Freely would give the broad lands of my earldom
  To look upon the face hidden by yon lattice—
  “To gaze upon that veiled face, and hear
  Once more that silent tongue.”

      Bal.  Let me beg you, sir,
  Descend with me—the Duke may be offended.
  Let us go down, I pray you.

      (Voice loudly) Say nay!—say nay!

      Pol. (aside)  ‘Tis strange!—‘tis very strange—methought the
  voice
  Chimed in with my desires, and bade me stay!

                                     (approaching the window.)
  Sweet voice! I heed thee, and will surely stay.
  Now be this Fancy, by Heaven, or be it Fate,
  Still will I not descend. Baldazzar, make
  Apology unto the Duke for me;
  I go not down to-night.

      Bal.  Your lordship’s pleasure
  Shall be attended to. Good-night, Politian.

      Pol.  Good-night, my friend, good-night.

                           IV.

             The gardens of a Palace—Moonlight Lalage and Politian.

      Lalge.  And dost thou speak of love
  To me, Politian?—dost thou speak of love
  To Lalage?—ah, woe—ah, woe is me!
  This mockery is most cruel—most cruel indeed!

      Politian.  Weep not! oh, sob not thus!—thy bitter tears
  Will madden me. Oh, mourn not, Lalage—
  Be comforted! I know—I know it all,
  And still I speak of love. Look at me, brightest
  And beautiful Lalage!—turn here thine eyes!
  Thou askest me if I could speak of love,
  Knowing what I know, and seeing what I have seen.
  Thou askest me that—and thus I answer thee—
  Thus on my bended knee I answer thee.                    (kneeling.)
  Sweet Lalage, I love thee—love thee—love thee;
  Thro’ good and ill—thro’ weal and wo I love thee.
  Not mother, with her first-born on her knee,
  Thrills with intenser love than I for thee.
  Not on God’s altar, in any time or clime,
  Burned there a holier fire than burneth now
  Within my spirit for thee. And do I love?                 (arising.)
  Even for thy woes I love thee—even for thy woes-
  Thy beauty and thy woes.

      Lal.  Alas, proud Earl,
  Thou dost forget thyself, remembering me!
  How, in thy father’s halls, among the maidens
  Pure and reproachless of thy princely line,
  Could the dishonored Lalage abide?
  Thy wife, and with a tainted memory-
  MY seared and blighted name, how would it tally
  With the ancestral honors of thy house,
  And with thy glory?

      Pol.  Speak not to me of glory!
  I hate—I loathe the name; I do abhor
  The unsatisfactory and ideal thing.
  Art thou not Lalage and I Politian?
  Do I not love—art thou not beautiful-
  What need we more? Ha! glory!—now speak not of it.
  By all I hold most sacred and most solemn-
  By all my wishes now—my fears hereafter-
  By all I scorn on earth and hope in heaven-
  There is no deed I would more glory in,
  Than in thy cause to scoff at this same glory
  And trample it under foot. What matters it-
  What matters it, my fairest, and my best,
  That we go down unhonored and forgotten
  Into the dust—so we descend together.
  Descend together—and then—and then, perchance-

      Lal.  Why dost thou pause, Politian?

      Pol.  And then, perchance
  Arise together, Lalage, and roam
  The starry and quiet dwellings of the blest,
  And still-

      Lal.  Why dost thou pause, Politian?

      Pol.  And still together—together.

      Lal.  Now Earl of Leicester!
  Thou lovest me, and in my heart of hearts
  I feel thou lovest me truly.

      Pol.  Oh, Lalage!

                                       (throwing himself upon his knee.)
  And lovest thou me?

      Lal.  Hist! hush! within the gloom
  Of yonder trees methought a figure passed-
  A spectral figure, solemn, and slow, and noiseless-
  Like the grim shadow Conscience, solemn and noiseless.

                                             (walks across and returns.)
  I was mistaken—‘twas but a giant bough
  Stirred by the autumn wind. Politian!

      Pol.  My Lalage—my love! why art thou moved?
  Why dost thou turn so pale? Not Conscience’ self,
  Far less a shadow which thou likenest to it,
  Should shake the firm spirit thus. But the night wind
  Is chilly—and these melancholy boughs
  Throw over all things a gloom.

      Lal.  Politian!
  Thou speakest to me of love. Knowest thou the land
  With which all tongues are busy—a land new found—
  Miraculously found by one of Genoa—
  A thousand leagues within the golden west?
  A fairy land of flowers, and fruit, and sunshine,
  And crystal lakes, and over-arching forests,
  And mountains, around whose towering summits the winds
  Of Heaven untrammelled flow—which air to breathe
  Is Happiness now, and will be Freedom hereafter
  In days that are to come?

      Pol.  O, wilt thou—wilt thou
  Fly to that Paradise—my Lalage, wilt thou
  Fly thither with me? There Care shall be forgotten,
  And Sorrow shall be no more, and Eros be all.
  And life shall then be mine, for I will live
  For thee, and in thine eyes—and thou shalt be
  No more a mourner—but the radiant Joys
  Shall wait upon thee, and the angel Hope
  Attend thee ever; and I will kneel to thee
  And worship thee, and call thee my beloved,
  My own, my beautiful, my love, my wife,
  My all;—oh, wilt thou—wilt thou, Lalage,
  Fly thither with me?

      Lal.  A deed is to be done—
  Castiglione lives!

      Pol.  And he shall die!                                (exit)

      Lal. (after a pause.)  And—he—shall—die!—alas!
  Castiglione die? Who spoke the words?
  Where am I?—what was it he said?—Politian!
  Thou art not gone—thou are not gone, Politian!
  I feel thou art not gone—yet dare not look,
  Lest I behold thee not; thou couldst not go
  With those words upon thy lips—O, speak to me!
  And let me hear thy voice—one word—one word,
  To say thou art not gone,—one little sentence,
  To say how thou dost scorn—how thou dost hate
  My womanly weakness. Ha! ha! thou art not gone-
  O speak to me! I knew thou wouldst not go!
  I knew thou wouldst not, couldst not, durst not go.
  Villain, thou art not gone—thou mockest me!
  And thus I clutch thee—thus!—He is gone, he is gone
  Gone—gone. Where am I?—‘tis well—‘tis very well!
  So that the blade be keen—the blow be sure,
  ‘Tis well, ‘tis very well—alas! alas!

                            V.

                 The suburbs. Politian alone.

      Politian.  This weakness grows upon me. I am faint,
  And much I fear me ill—it will not do
  To die ere I have lived!—Stay, stay thy hand,
  O Azrael, yet awhile!—Prince of the Powers
  Of Darkness and the Tomb, O pity me!
  O pity me! let me not perish now,
  In the budding of my Paradisal Hope!
  Give me to live yet—yet a little while:
  ‘Tis I who pray for life—I who so late
  Demanded but to die!—what sayeth the Count?

                    Enter Baldazzar.

      Baldazzar.  That knowing no cause of quarrel or of feud
  Between the Earl Politian and himself.
  He doth decline your cartel.

      Pol.  What didst thou say?
  What answer was it you brought me, good Baldazzar?
  With what excessive fragrance the zephyr comes
  Laden from yonder bowers!—a fairer day,
  Or one more worthy Italy, methinks
  No mortal eyes have seen!—what said the Count?

      Bal.  That he, Castiglione’ not being aware
  Of any feud existing, or any cause
  Of quarrel between your lordship and himself,
  Cannot accept the challenge.

      Pol.  It is most true—
  All this is very true. When saw you, sir,
  When saw you now, Baldazzar, in the frigid
  Ungenial Britain which we left so lately,
  A heaven so calm as this—so utterly free
  From the evil taint of clouds?—and he did say?

      Bal.  No more, my lord, than I have told you, sir:
  The Count Castiglione will not fight,
  Having no cause for quarrel.

      Pol.  Now this is true-
  All very true. Thou art my friend, Baldazzar,
  And I have not forgotten it—thou’lt do me
  A piece of service; wilt thou go back and say
  Unto this man, that I, the Earl of Leicester,
  Hold him a villain?—thus much, I prythee, say
  Unto the Count—it is exceeding just
  He should have cause for quarrel.

      Bal.  My lord!—my friend!-

      Pol.  (aside.) ‘Tis he!—he comes himself? (aloud) Thou reasonest
  well.
  I know what thou wouldst say—not send the message-
  Well!—I will think of it—I will not send it.
  Now prythee, leave me—hither doth come a person
  With whom affairs of a most private nature
  I would adjust.

      Bal.  I go—to-morrow we meet,
  Do we not?—at the Vatican.

      Pol.  At the Vatican.                                     (exit
  Bal.)

                    Enter Castigilone.

      Cas.  The Earl of Leicester here!

      Pol.  I am the Earl of Leicester, and thou seest,
  Dost thou not? that I am here.

      Cas.  My lord, some strange,
  Some singular mistake—misunderstanding—
  Hath without doubt arisen: thou hast been urged
  Thereby, in heat of anger, to address
  Some words most unaccountable, in writing,
  To me, Castiglione; the bearer being
  Baldazzar, Duke of Surrey. I am aware
  Of nothing which might warrant thee in this thing,
  Having given thee no offence. Ha!—am I right?
  ‘Twas a mistake?—undoubtedly—we all
  Do err at times.

      Pol.  Draw, villain, and prate no more!

      Cas.  Ha!—draw?—and villain? have at thee then at once,
  Proud Earl!                                   (draws.)

      Pol.  (drawing.)  Thus to the expiatory tomb,
  Untimely sepulchre, I do devote thee
  In the name of Lalage!

      Cas.  (letting fall his sword and recoiling to the extremity of the
  stage)

                      Of Lalage!
  Hold off—thy sacred hand!—avaunt, I say!
  Avaunt—I will not fight thee—indeed I dare not.

      Pol.  Thou wilt not fight with me didst say, Sir Count?
  Shall I be baffled thus?—now this is well;
  Didst say thou darest not? Ha!

      Cas.  I dare not—dare not—
  Hold off thy hand—with that beloved name
  So fresh upon thy lips I will not fight thee—
  I cannot—dare not.

      Pol.  Now by my halidom
  I do believe thee!—coward, I do believe thee!

      Cas.  Ha!—coward!—this may not be!

       (clutches his sword and staggers towards POLITIAN, but his purpose
  is changed before reaching him, and he falls upon his knee at the feet of
  the Earl)

                             Alas! my lord,
  It is—it is—most true. In such a cause
  I am the veriest coward. O pity me!

      Pol.  (greatly softened.)  Alas!—I do—indeed I pity thee.

      Cas.  And Lalage-

      Pol.  Scoundrel!—arise and die!

      Cas.  It needeth not be—thus—thus—O let me die
  Thus on my bended knee. It were most fitting
  That in this deep humiliation I perish.
  For in the fight I will not raise a hand
  Against thee, Earl of Leicester. Strike thou home—

                                                     (baring his bosom.)
  Here is no let or hindrance to thy weapon-
  Strike home. I will not fight thee.

      Pol.  Now, s’ Death and Hell!
  Am I not—am I not sorely—grievously tempted
  To take thee at thy word? But mark me, sir,
  Think not to fly me thus. Do thou prepare
  For public insult in the streets—before
  The eyes of the citizens. I’ll follow thee
  Like an avenging spirit I’ll follow thee
  Even unto death. Before those whom thou lovest-
  Before all Rome I’ll taunt thee, villain,—I’ll taunt thee,
  Dost hear? with cowardice—thou wilt not fight me?
  Thou liest! thou shalt!                                      (exit.)

      Cas.  Now this indeed is just!
  Most righteous, and most just, avenging Heaven!

  {In the book there is a gap in numbering the notes between 12 and 29.
 —ED}
</pre>
<p>
      NOTE
    </p>
<p>
      29. Such portions of “Politian” as are known to the public
      first saw the light of publicity in the “Southern Literary Messenger”
      for December, 1835, and January, 1836, being styled “Scenes from
      Politian: an unpublished drama.” These scenes were included,
      unaltered, in the 1845 collection of Poems, by Poe. The larger portion of
      the original draft subsequently became the property of the present editor,
      but it is not considered just to the poet’s memory to publish it.
      The work is a hasty and unrevised production of its author’s earlier
      days of literary labor; and, beyond the scenes already known, scarcely
      calculated to enhance his reputation. As a specimen, however, of the parts
      unpublished, the following fragment from the first scene of Act II. may be
      offered. The Duke, it should be premised, is uncle to Alessandra, and
      father of Castiglione her betrothed.
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
      Duke. Why do you laugh?

      Castiglione. Indeed

  I hardly know myself. Stay! Was it not
  On yesterday we were speaking of the Earl?
  Of the Earl Politian? Yes! it was yesterday.
  Alessandra, you and 1, you must remember!
  We were walking in the garden.

      Duke, Perfectly.
  I do remember it-what of it-what then?

      Cas. 0 nothing-nothing at all.

      Duke. Nothing at all!
  It is most singular that you should laugh
  ‘At nothing at all!

      Cas. Most singular-singular!

      Duke. Look you, Castiglione, be so kind
  As tell me, sir, at once what ‘tis you mean.
  What are you talking of?

      Cas. Was it not so?
  We differed in opinion touching him.

      Duke. Him!—Whom?

      Cas. Why, sir, the Earl Politian.

      Duke. The Earl of Leicester! Yes!—is it he you mean?
  We differed, indeed. If I now recollect
  The words you used were that the Earl you knew
  Was neither learned nor mirthful.

      Cas. Ha! ha!—now did I?

      Duke. That did you, sir, and well I knew at the time
  You were wrong, it being not the character
  Of the Earl-whom all the world allows to be
  A most hilarious man. Be not, my son,
  Too positive again.

      Cas. ‘Tis singular!
  Most singular! I could not think it possible
  So little time could so much alter one!
  To say the truth about an hour ago,
  As I was walking with the Count San Ozzo,
  All arm in arm, we met this very man
  The Earl-he, with his friend Baldazzar,
  Having just arrived in Rome. Hal ha! he is altered!
  Such an account he gave me of his journey!
  ‘Twould have made you die with laughter-such tales he told
  Of his caprices and his merry freaks
  Along the road-such oddity-such humor—
  Such wit-such whim-such flashes of wild merriment
  Set off too in such full relief by the grave
  Demeanor of his friend-who, to speak the truth,
  Was gravity itself—

      Duke. Did I not tell you?

      Cas. You did-and yet ‘tis strange! but true as strange,
  How much I was mistaken! I always thought
  The Earl a gloomy man.

      Duke. So, so, you see! Be not too positive. Whom have we here?
  It can not be the Earl?

      Cas. The Earl! Oh, no! ‘Tis not the Earl-but yet it is-and leaning
  Upon his friend Baldazzar. AM welcome, sir!

  (Enter Politian and Baldazzar.)
  My lord, a second welcome let me give you
  To Rome-his Grace the Duke of Broglio.
  Father! this is the Earl Politian, Earl
  Of Leicester in Great Britain. [Politian bows haughtily.]
      That, his friend
  Baldazzar, Duke of Surrey. The Earl has letters,
  So please you, for Your Grace.

      Duke. Hal ha! Most welcome
  To Rome and to our palace, Earl Politian!
  And you, most noble Duke! I am glad to see you!
  I knew your father well, my Lord Politian.
  Castiglione! call your cousin hither,
  And let me make the noble Earl acquainted
  With your betrothed. You come, sir, at a time
  Most seasonable. The wedding—

      Politian. Touching those letters, sir,
  Your son made mention of—your son, is he not?
  Touching those letters, sir, I wot not of them.
  If such there be, my friend Baldazzar here—
  Baldazzar! ah!—my friend Baldazzar here
  Will hand them to Your Grace. I would retire.

      Duke. Retire!—So soon?

  Came What ho! Benito! Rupert!
  His lordship’s chambers-show his lordship to them!
  His lordship is unwell.     (Enter Benito.)

      Ben. This way, my lord! (Exit, followed by Politian.)

      Duke. Retire! Unwell!

      Bal. So please you, sir. I fear me
  ‘Tis as you say—his lordship is unwell.
  The damp air of the evening-the fatigue
  Of a long journey—the—indeed I had better
  Follow his lordship. He must be unwell.
  I will return anon.

      Duke. Return anon!
  Now this is very strange! Castiglione!
  This way, my son, I wish to speak with thee.
  You surely were mistaken in what you said
  Of the Earl, mirthful, indeed!—which of us said
  Politian was a melancholy man?    (Exeunt.)
</pre>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0042">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      POEMS OF YOUTH
    </h2>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_INTR">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      INTRODUCTION TO POEMS—1831
    </h2>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0044">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
<i>LETTER TO MR. B—.</i>
</h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
                                  “WEST POINT, 1831.
</pre>
<p>
      “DEAR B......... Believing only a portion of my former volume to be
      worthy a second edition-that small portion I thought it as well to include
      in the present book as to republish by itself. I have therefore herein
      combined ‘Al Aaraaf’ and ‘Tamerlane’ with other
      poems hitherto unprinted. Nor have I hesitated to insert from the ‘Minor
      Poems,’ now omitted, whole lines, and even passages, to the end that
      being placed in a fairer light, and the trash shaken from them in which
      they were imbedded, they may have some chance of being seen by posterity.
    </p>
<p>
      “It has been said that a good critique on a poem may be written by
      one who is no poet himself. This, according to your idea and <i>mine </i>of
      poetry, I feel to be false-the less poetical the critic, the less just the
      critique, and the converse. On this account, and because there are but few
      B-’s in the world, I would be as much ashamed of the world’s
      good opinion as proud of your own. Another than yourself might here
      observe, ‘Shakespeare is in possession of the world’s good
      opinion, and yet Shakespeare is the greatest of poets. It appears then
      that the world judge correctly, why should you be ashamed of their
      favorable judgment?’ The difficulty lies in the interpretation of
      the word ‘judgment’ or ‘opinion.’ The opinion is
      the world’s, truly, but it may be called theirs as a man would call
      a book his, having bought it; he did not write the book, but it is his;
      they did not originate the opinion, but it is theirs. A fool, for example,
      thinks Shakespeare a great poet-yet the fool has never read Shakespeare.
      But the fool’s neighbor, who is a step higher on the Andes of the
      mind, whose head (that is to say, his more exalted thought) is too far
      above the fool to be seen or understood, but whose feet (by which I mean
      his everyday actions) are sufficiently near to be discerned, and by means
      of which that superiority is ascertained, which but for them would never
      have been discovered-this neighbor asserts that Shakespeare is a great
      poet—the fool believes him, and it is henceforward his <i>opinion.
      </i>This neighbor’s own opinion has, in like manner, been adopted
      from one above him, and so, ascendingly, to a few gifted individuals who
      kneel around the summit, beholding, face to face, the master spirit who
      stands upon the pinnacle.
    </p>
<p>
      “You are aware of the great barrier in the path of an American
      writer. He is read, if at all, in preference to the combined and
      established wit of the world. I say established; for it is with literature
      as with law or empire-an established name is an estate in tenure, or a
      throne in possession. Besides, one might suppose that books, like their
      authors, improve by travel-their having crossed the sea is, with us, so
      great a distinction. Our antiquaries abandon time for distance; our very
      fops glance from the binding to the bottom of the title-page, where the
      mystic characters which spell London, Paris, or Genoa, are precisely so
      many letters of recommendation.
    </p>
<p>
      “I mentioned just now a vulgar error as regards criticism. I think
      the notion that no poet can form a correct estimate of his own writings is
      another. I remarked before that in proportion to the poetical talent would
      be the justice of a critique upon poetry. Therefore a bad poet would, I
      grant, make a false critique, and his self-love would infallibly bias his
      little judgment in his favor; but a poet, who is indeed a poet, could not,
      I think, fail of making-a just critique; whatever should be deducted on
      the score of self-love might be replaced on account of his intimate
      acquaintance with the subject; in short, we have more instances of false
      criticism than of just where one’s own writings are the test, simply
      because we have more bad poets than good. There are, of course, many
      objections to what I say: Milton is a great example of the contrary; but
      his opinion with respect to the ‘Paradise Regained’ is by no
      means fairly ascertained. By what trivial circumstances men are often led
      to assert what they do not really believe! Perhaps an inadvertent word has
      descended to posterity. But, in fact, the ‘Paradise Regained’
      is little, if at all, inferior to the ‘Paradise Lost,’ and is
      only supposed so to be because men do not like epics, whatever they may
      say to the contrary, and, reading those of Milton in their natural order,
      are too much wearied with the first to derive any pleasure from the
      second.
    </p>
<p>
      “I dare say Milton preferred ‘Comus’ to either-. if
      so-justly.
    </p>
<p>
      “As I am speaking of poetry, it will not be amiss to touch slightly
      upon the most singular heresy in its modern history-the heresy of what is
      called, very foolishly, the Lake School. Some years ago I might have been
      induced, by an occasion like the present, to attempt a formal refutation
      of their doctrine; at present it would be a work of supererogation. The
      wise must bow to the wisdom of such men as Coleridge and Southey, but,
      being wise, have laughed at poetical theories so prosaically exemplifled.
    </p>
<p>
      “Aristotle, with singular assurance, has declared poetry the most
      philosophical of all writings*-but it required a Wordsworth to pronounce
      it the most metaphysical. He seems to think that the end of poetry is, or
      should be, instruction; yet it is a truism that the end of our existence
      is happiness; if so, the end of every separate part of our existence,
      everything connected with our existence, should be still happiness.
      Therefore the end of instruction should be happiness; and happiness is
      another name for pleasure;-therefore the end of instruction should be
      pleasure: yet we see the above-mentioned opinion implies precisely the
      reverse.
    </p>
<p>
      “To proceed: <i>ceteris paribus,</i> he who pleases is of more
      importance to his fellow-men than he who instructs, since utility is
      happiness, and pleasure is the end already obtained which instruction is
      merely the means of obtaining.
    </p>
<p>
      “I see no reason, then, why our metaphysical poets should plume
      themselves so much on the utility of their works, unless indeed they refer
      to instruction with eternity in view; in which case, sincere respect for
      their piety would not allow me to express my contempt for their judgment;
      contempt which it would be difficult to conceal, since their writings are
      professedly to be understood by the few, and it is the many who stand in
      need of salvation. In such case I should no doubt be tempted to think of
      the devil in ‘Melmoth.’ who labors indefatigably, through
      three octavo volumes, to accomplish the destruction of one or two souls,
      while any common devil would have demolished one or two thousand.
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
“Against the subtleties which would make poetry a study-not a passion-it
becomes the metaphysician to reason-but the poet to protest.
Yet Wordsworth and Coleridge are men in years; the one imbued in
contemplation from his childhood; the other a giant in intellect and
learning. The diffidence, then, with which I venture to dispute their
authority would be overwhelming did I not feel, from the bottom of my
heart, that learning has little to do with the imagination-intellect
with the passions-or age with poetry.

     “‘Trifles, like straws, upon the surface flow;
     He who would search for pearls must dive below,’
</pre>
<p>
      are lines which have done much mischief. As regards the greater truths,
      men oftener err by seeking them at the bottom than at the top; Truth lies
      in the huge abysses where wisdom is sought-not in the palpable palaces
      where she is found. The ancients were not always right in hiding—the
      goddess in a well; witness the light which Bacon has thrown upon
      philosophy; witness the principles of our divine faith—that moral
      mechanism by which the simplicity of a child may overbalance the wisdom of
      a man.
    </p>
<p>
      “We see an instance of Coleridge’s liability to err, in his
      ‘Biographia Literaria’—professedly his literary life and
      opinions, but, in fact, a treatise <i>de omni scibili et quibusdam aliis.
      </i>He goes wrong by reason of his very profundity, and of his error we
      have a natural type in the contemplation of a star. He who regards it
      directly and intensely sees, it is true, the star, but it is the star
      without a ray-while he who surveys it less inquisitively is conscious of
      all for which the star is useful to us below-its brilliancy and its
      beauty.
    </p>
<p>
      “As to Wordsworth, I have no faith in him. That he had in youth the
      feelings of a poet I believe-for there are glimpses of extreme delicacy in
      his writings-(and delicacy is the poet’s own kingdom-his <i>El
      Dorado)-but they </i>have the appearance of a better day recollected; and
      glimpses, at best, are little evidence of present poetic fire; we know
      that a few straggling flowers spring up daily in the crevices of the
      glacier.
    </p>
<p>
      “He was to blame in wearing away his youth in contemplation with the
      end of poetizing in his manhood. With the increase of his judgment the
      light which should make it apparent has faded away. His judgment
      consequently is too correct. This may not be understood-but the old Goths
      of Germany would have understood it, who used to debate matters of
      importance to their State twice, once when drunk, and once when
      sober-sober that they might not be deficient in formality—drunk lest
      they should be destitute of vigor.
    </p>
<p>
      “The long wordy discussions by which he tries to reason us into
      admiration of his poetry, speak very little in his favor: they are full of
      such assertions as this (I have opened one of his volumes at random)—‘Of
      genius the only proof is the act of doing well what is worthy to be done,
      and what was never done before;’-indeed? then it follows that in
      doing what is unworthy to be done, or what <i>has </i>been done before, no
      genius can be evinced; yet the picking of pockets is an unworthy act,
      pockets have been picked time immemorial, and Barrington, the pickpocket,
      in point of genius, would have thought hard of a comparison with William
      Wordsworth, the poet.
    </p>
<p>
      “Again, in estimating the merit of certain poems, whether they be
      Ossian’s or Macpherson’s can surely be of little consequence,
      yet, in order to prove their worthlessness, Mr. W. has expended many pages
      in the controversy. <i>Tantaene animis? </i>Can great minds descend to
      such absurdity? But worse still: that he may bear down every argument in
      favor of these poems, he triumphantly drags forward a passage, in his
      abomination with which he expects the reader to sympathize. It is the
      beginning of the epic poem ‘Temora.’ ‘The blue waves of
      Ullin roll in light; the green hills are covered with day; trees shake
      their dusty heads in the breeze.’ And this this gorgeous, yet simple
      imagery, where all is alive and panting with immortality-this, William
      Wordsworth, the author of ‘Peter Bell,’ has <i>selected </i>for
      his contempt. We shall see what better he, in his own person, has to
      offer. Imprimis:
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     “‘And now she’s at the pony’s tail,
     And now she’s at the pony’s head,
     On that side now, and now on this;
     And, almost stifled with her bliss,

     A few sad tears does Betty shed....
     She pats the pony, where or when
     She knows not.... happy Betty Foy!
     Oh, Johnny, never mind the doctor!’
</pre>
<p>
      Secondly:
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     “‘The dew was falling fast, the-stars began to b2151link;
     I heard a voice: it said-“Drink, pretty creature, drink!”
      And, looking o’er the hedge, be-fore me I espied
     A snow-white mountain lamb, with a-maiden at its side.
     No other sheep was near,—the lamb was all alone,
     And by a slender cord was-tether’d to a stone.’
</pre>
<p>
      “Now, we have no doubt this is all true: we will believe it, indeed
      we will, Mr. W. Is it sympathy for the sheep you wish to excite? I love a
      sheep from the bottom of my heart.
    </p>
<p>
      “But there are occasions, dear B-, there are occasions when even
      Wordsworth is reasonable. Even Stamboul, it is said, shall have an end,
      and the most unlucky blunders must come to a conclusion. Here is an
      extract from his preface:-
    </p>
<p>
      “‘Those who have been accustomed to the phraseology of modem
      writers, if they persist in reading this book to a conclusion <i>(impossible!)
      will, </i>no doubt, have to struggle with feelings of awkwardness; (ha!
      ha! ha!) they will look round for poetry (ha! ha! ha! ha!), and will be
      induced to inquire by what species of courtesy these attempts have been
      permitted to assume that title.’ Ha! ha! ha! ha! ha!
    </p>
<p>
      “Yet, let not Mr. W. despair; he has given immortality to a wagon,
      and the bee Sophocles has transmitted to eternity a sore toe, and
      dignified a tragedy with a chorus of turkeys.
    </p>
<p>
      “Of Coleridge, I can not speak but with reverence. His towering
      intellect! his gigantic power! To use an author quoted by himself, <i>‘Tai
      trouv? souvent que la plupart des sectes ont raison dans une bonne partie
      de ce qu’elles avancent, mais non pas en ce qu’elles nient,’
      and </i>to employ his own language, he has imprisoned his own conceptions
      by the barrier he has erected against those of others. It is lamentable to
      think that such a mind should be buried in metaphysics, and, like the
      Nyctanthes, waste its perfume upon the night alone. In reading that man’s
      poetry, I tremble like one who stands upon a volcano, conscious from the
      very darkness bursting from the crater, of the fire and the light that are
      weltering below.
    </p>
<p>
      “What is poetry?—Poetry! that Proteus-like idea, with as many
      appellations as the nine-titled Corcyra! ‘Give me,’ I demanded
      of a scholar some time ago, ‘give me a definition of poetry.’
      <i>‘Tr?svolontiers;’ </i>and he proceeded to his library,
      brought me a Dr. Johnson, and overwhelmed me with a definition. Shade of
      the immortal Shakespeare! I imagine to myself the scowl of your spiritual
      eye upon the profanity of that scurrilous Ursa Major. Think of poetry,
      dear B-, think of poetry, and then think of Dr. Samuel Johnson! Think of
      all that is airy and fairy-like, and then of all that is hideous and
      unwieldy; think of his huge bulk, the Elephant! and then-and then think of
      the ‘Tempest’—the ‘Midsummer-Night’s Dream’—Prospero
      Oberon—and Titania!
    </p>
<p>
      “A poem, in my opinion, is opposed to a work of science by having,
      for its <i>immediate </i>object, pleasure, not truth; to romance, by
      having, for its object, an <i>indefinite </i>instead of a <i>definite </i>pleasure,
      being a poem only so far as this object is attained; romance presenting
      perceptible images with definite, poetry with indefinite sensations, to
      which end music is an <i>essential, since </i>the comprehension of sweet
      sound is our most indefinite conception. Music, when combined with a
      pleasurable idea, is poetry; music, without the idea, is simply music; the
      idea, wi thout the music, is prose, from its very definitiveness.
    </p>
<p>
      “What was meant by the invective against him who had no music in his
      soul?
    </p>
<p>
      “To sum up this long rigmarole, I have, dear B—, what you, no
      doubt, perceive, for the metaphysical poets as poets, the most sovereign
      contempt. That they have followers proves nothing-
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     “‘No Indian prince has to his palace
     More followers than a thief to the gallows.
</pre>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0045">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      SONNET—TO SCIENCE
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     SCIENCE! true daughter of Old Time thou art!
         Who alterest all things with thy peering eyes.
     Why preyest thou thus upon the poet’s heart,
         Vulture, whose wings are dull realities?
     How should he love thee? or how deem thee wise,
         Who wouldst not leave him in his wandering
     To seek for treasure in the jewelled skies
         Albeit he soared with an undaunted wing?
     Hast thou not dragged Diana from her car?
         And driven the Hamadryad from the wood
     To seek a shelter in some happier star?
         Hast thous not torn the Naiad from her flood,
     The Elfin from the green grass, and from me
         The summer dream beneath the tamarind tree?
</pre>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0046">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      AL AARAAF (*)
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     PART I.

          O!  NOTHING earthly save the ray
          (Thrown back from flowers) of Beauty’s eye,
          As in those gardens where the day
          Springs from the gems of Circassy—
          O! nothing earthly save the thrill
          Of melody in woodland rill—
          Or (music of the passion-hearted)
          Joy’s voice so peacefully departed
          That like the murmur in the shell,
          Its echo dwelleth and will dwell—
          Oh, nothing of the dross of ours—
          Yet all the beauty—all the flowers
          That list our Love, and deck our bowers—
          Adorn yon world afar, afar—
          The wandering star.

             ‘Twas a sweet time for Nesace—for there
          Her world lay lolling on the golden air,
          Near four bright suns—a temporary rest—
          An oasis in desert of the blest.

     * A star was discovered by Tycho Brahe which appeared
     suddenly in the heavens—attained, in a few days, a
     brilliancy surpassing that of Jupiter—then as suddenly
     disappeared, and has never been seen since.

          Away—away—‘mid seas of rays that roll
          Empyrean splendor o’er th’ unchained soul—
          The soul that scarce (the billows are so dense)
          Can struggle to its destin’d eminence—
          To distant spheres, from time to time, she rode,
          And late to ours, the favour’d one of God—
          But, now, the ruler of an anchor’d realm,
          She throws aside the sceptre—leaves the helm,
          And, amid incense and high spiritual hymns,
          Laves in quadruple light her angel limbs.

              Now happiest, loveliest in yon lovely Earth,
          Whence sprang the “Idea of Beauty” into birth,
          (Falling in wreaths thro’ many a startled star,
          Like woman’s hair ‘mid pearls, until, afar,
          It lit on hills Achaian, and there dwelt)
          She look’d into Infinity—and knelt.
          Rich clouds, for canopies, about her curled—
          Fit emblems of the model of her world—
          Seen but in beauty—not impeding sight
          Of other beauty glittering thro’ the light—
          A wreath that twined each starry form around,
          And all the opal’d air in color bound.

              All hurriedly she knelt upon a bed
          Of flowers:  of lilies such as rear’d the head
          *On the fair Capo Deucato, and sprang
          So eagerly around about to hang
          Upon the flying footsteps of—deep pride—
          **Of her who lov’d a mortal—and so died.
          The Sephalica, budding with young bees,
          Uprear’d its purple stem around her knees:

          * On Santa Maura—olim Deucadia.

          **And gemmy flower, of Trebizond misnam’d—
          Inmate of highest stars, where erst it sham’d
          All other loveliness: its honied dew
          (The fabled nectar that the heathen knew)
          Deliriously sweet, was dropp’d from Heaven,
          And fell on gardens of the unforgiven
          In Trebizond—and on a sunny flower
          So like its own above that, to this hour,
          It still remaineth, torturing the bee
          With madness, and unwonted reverie:
          In Heaven, and all its environs, the leaf
          And blossom of the fairy plant, in grief
          Disconsolate linger—grief that hangs her head,
          Repenting follies that full long have fled,
          Heaving her white breast to the balmy air,
          Like guilty beauty, chasten’d, and more fair:
          Nyctanthes too, as sacred as the light
          She fears to perfume, perfuming the night:
          **And Clytia pondering between many a sun,
          While pettish tears adown her petals run:
          ***And that aspiring flower that sprang on Earth—
          And died, ere scarce exalted into birth,
          Bursting its odorous heart in spirit to wing
          Its way to Heaven, from garden of a king:

     * This flower is much noticed by Lewenhoeck and Tournefort.
     The bee, feeding upon its blossom, becomes intoxicated.

     ** Clytia—The Chrysanthemum Peruvianum, or, to employ a
     better-known term, the turnsol—which continually turns
     towards the sun, covers itself, like Peru, the country from
     which it comes, with dewy clouds which cool and refresh its
     flowers during the most violent heat of the day.—<i>B. de St.
     Pierre</i>.

     *** There is cultivated in the king’s garden at Paris, a
     species of serpentine aloes without prickles, whose large
     and beautiful flower exhales a strong odour of the vanilla,
     during the time of its expansion, which is very short. It
     does not blow till towards the month of July—you then
     perceive it gradually open its petals—expand them—fade
     and die.—<i>St. Pierre</i>.

     *And Valisnerian lotus thither flown
     From struggling with the waters of the Rhone:
     **And thy most lovely purple perfume, Zante!
     Isola d’oro!—Fior di Levante!
     ***And the Nelumbo bud that floats for ever
     With Indian Cupid down the holy river—
     Fair flowers, and fairy! to whose care is given
     ****To bear the Goddess’ song, in odors, up to Heaven:

        “Spirit! that dwellest where,
              In the deep sky,
          The terrible and fair,
              In beauty vie!
          Beyond the line of blue—
              The boundary of the star
          Which turneth at the view
              Of thy barrier and thy bar—
          Of the barrier overgone
             By the comets who were cast
          From their pride, and from their throne
             To be drudges till the last—
          To be carriers of fire
             (The red fire of their heart)
          With speed that may not tire
             And with pain that shall not part—

     * There is found, in the Rhone, a beautiful lily of the
     Valisnerian kind. Its stem will stretch to the length of
     three or four feet—thus preserving its head above water
     in the swellings of the river.

     ** The Hyacinth.

     *** It is a fiction of the Indians, that Cupid was first
     seen floating in one of these down the river Ganges—and
     that he still loves the cradle of his childhood.

    **** And golden vials full of odors which are the prayers of the saints.
   —Rev. St. John.

          Who livest—<i>that</i> we know—
              In Eternity—we feel—
          But the shadow of whose brow
              What spirit shall reveal?
          Tho’ the beings whom thy Nesace,
              Thy messenger hath known
          Have dream’d for thy Infinity
              *A model of their own—
          Thy will is done, Oh, God!
              The star hath ridden high
          Thro’ many a tempest, but she rode
              Beneath thy burning eye;
          And here, in thought, to thee—
              In thought that can alone
          Ascend thy empire and so be
              A partner of thy throne—

     * The Humanitarians held that God was to be understood as
     having a really human form.—<i>Vide Clarke’s Sermons</i>, vol.
     1, page 26, fol. edit.

     The drift of Milton’s argument, leads him to employ language
     which would appear, at first sight, to verge upon their
     doctrine;  but it will be seen immediately, that he guards
     himself against the charge of having adopted one of the most
     ignorant errors of the dark ages of the church.—<i>Dr.
     Sumner’s Notes on Milton’s Christian Doctrine</i>.

     This opinion, in spite of many testimonies to the contrary,
     could never have been very general. Andeus, a Syrian of
     Mesopotamia, was condemned for the opinion, as heretical. He
     lived in the beginning of the fourth century. His disciples
     were called Anthropmorphites.—<i>Vide Du Pin</i>.

     Among Milton’s poems are these lines:—
                Dicite sacrorum pr?sides nemorum De?, &amp;c.
                Quis ille primus cujus ex imagine
                Natura solers finxit humanum genus?
                Eternus, incorruptus, ?qu?vus polo,
                Unusque et universus exemplar Dei.—And afterwards,
                Non cui profundum C?citas lumen dedit
                Dirc?us augur vidit hunc alto sinu, &amp;c.

          *By winged Fantasy,
              My embassy is given,
          Till secrecy shall knowledge be
              In the environs of Heaven.”

          She ceas’d—and buried then her burning cheek
          Abash’d, amid the lilies there, to seek
          A shelter from the fervour of His eye;
          For the stars trembled at the Deity.
          She stirr’d not—breath’d not—for a voice was there
          How solemnly pervading the calm air!
          A sound of silence on the startled ear
          Which dreamy poets name “the music of the sphere.”
           Ours is a world of words:  Quiet we call
          “Silence”—which is the merest word of all.
          All Nature speaks, and ev’n ideal things
          Flap shadowy sounds from visionary wings—
          But ah! not so when, thus, in realms on high
          The eternal voice of God is passing by,
          And the red winds are withering in the sky!

          ** “What tho’ in worlds which sightless cycles run,
          Link’d to a little system, and one sun—
          Where all my love is folly and the crowd
          Still think my terrors but the thunder cloud,
          The storm, the earthquake, and the ocean-wrath—
          (Ah! will they cross me in my angrier path?)
          What tho’ in worlds which own a single sun
          The sands of Time grow dimmer as they run,

     * Seltsamen Tochter Jovis
       Seinem Schosskinde
       Der Phantasie.—<i>G?ethe</i>.

    ** Sightless—too small to be seen—<i>Legge</i>.

          Yet thine is my resplendency, so given
          To bear my secrets thro’ the upper Heaven.
          Leave tenantless thy crystal home, and fly,
          With all thy train, athwart the moony sky—
          *Apart—like fire-flies in Sicilian night,
          And wing to other worlds another light!
          Divulge the secrets of thy embassy
          To the proud orbs that twinkle—and so be
          To ev’ry heart a barrier and a ban
          Lest the stars totter in the guilt of man!”

              Up rose the maiden in the yellow night,
          The single-mooned eve!—on Earth we plight
          Our faith to one love—and one moon adore—
          The birth-place of young Beauty had no more.
          As sprang that yellow star from downy hours
          Up rose the maiden from her shrine of flowers,
          And bent o’er sheeny mountain and dim plain
          **Her way—but left not yet her Theras?an reign.

     * I have often noticed a peculiar movement of the fire-flies;
    —they will collect in a body and fly off, from a common
     centre, into innumerable radii.

     ** Theras?a, or Therasea, the island mentioned by Seneca,
     which, in a moment, arose from the sea to the eyes of
     astonished mariners.
</pre>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
                         Part II.

          HIGH on a mountain of enamell’d head—
          Such as the drowsy shepherd on his bed
          Of giant pasturage lying at his ease,
          Raising his heavy eyelid, starts and sees
          With many a mutter’d “hope to be forgiven”
           What time the moon is quadrated in Heaven—
          Of rosy head, that towering far away
          Into the sunlit ether, caught the ray
          Of sunken suns at eve—at noon of night,
          While the moon danc’d with the fair stranger light—
          Uprear’d upon such height arose a pile
          Of gorgeous columns on th’ unburthen’d air,
          Flashing from Parian marble that twin smile
          Far down upon the wave that sparkled there,
          And nursled the young mountain in its lair.
          *Of molten stars their pavement, such as fall
          Thro’ the ebon air, besilvering the pall
          Of their own dissolution, while they die—
          Adorning then the dwellings of the sky.
          A dome, by 2151linked light from Heaven let down,
          Sat gently on these columns as a crown—
          A window of one circular diamond, there,
          Look’d out above into the purple air,

     * Some star which, from the ruin’d roof Of shak’d Olympus,
     by mischance, did fall.—<i>Milton.</i>

          And rays from God shot down that meteor chain
          And hallow’d all the beauty twice again,
          Save when, between th’ Empyrean and that ring,
          Some eager spirit flapp’d his dusky wing.
          But on the pillars Seraph eyes have seen
          The dimness of this world:  that greyish green
          That Nature loves the best for Beauty’s grave
          Lurk’d in each cornice, round each architrave—
          And every sculptur’d cherub thereabout
          That from his marble dwelling peer?d out
          Seem’d earthly in the shadow of his niche—
          Achaian statues in a world so rich?
          *Friezes from Tadmor and Persepolis—
          From Balbec, and the stilly, clear abyss
          **Of beautiful Gomorrah!  O, the wave
          Is now upon thee—but too late to save!

          Sound loves to revel in a summer night:
          Witness the murmur of the grey twilight

     * Voltaire, in speaking of Persepolis, says, “Je connois
     bien l’admiration qu’inspirent ces ruines—mais un palais
     erig? au pied d’une chaine des rochers sterils—peut il
     ?tre un chef d’oevure des arts!” [<i>Voila les arguments de M.
     Voltaire</i>.]

     ** “Oh! the wave”—Ula Degusi is the Turkish appellation;
     but, on its own shores, it is called Bahar Loth, or
     Almotanah. There were undoubtedly more than two cities
     engluphed in the “dead sea.” In the valley of Siddim were
     five—Adrah, Zeboin, Zoar, Sodom and Gomorrah. Stephen of
     Byzantium mentions eight, and Strabo thirteeen, (engulphed)
    —but the last is out of all reason.

    It is said, (Tacitus, Strabo, Josephus, Daniel of St. Saba, Nau,
Maundrell, Troilo, D’Arvieux) that after an excessive drought, the
vestiges of columns, walls, &amp;c. are seen above the surface. At <i>any</i>
season, such remains may be discovered by looking down into the
transparent lake, and at such distances as would argue the existence of
many settlements in the space now usurped by the ‘Asphaltites.’

          *That stole upon the ear, in Eyraco,
          Of many a wild star-gazer long ago—
          That stealeth ever on the ear of him
          Who, musing, gazeth on the distance dim.
          And sees the darkness coming as a cloud—
          ***Is not its form—its voice—most palpable and loud?

              But what is this?—it cometh—and it brings
          A music with it—‘tis the rush of wings—
          A pause—and then a sweeping, falling strain
          And Nesace is in her halls again.
          From the wild energy of wanton haste
              Her cheeks were flushing, and her lips apart;
          And zone that clung around her gentle waist
              Had burst beneath the heaving of her heart.
          Within the centre of that hall to breathe
          She paus’d and panted, Zanthe!  all beneath,
          The fairy light that kiss’d her golden hair
          And long’d to rest, yet could but sparkle there!

              ***Young flowers were whispering in melody
          To happy flowers that night—and tree to tree;
          Fountains were gushing music as they fell
          In many a star-lit grove, or moon-lit dell;
          Yet silence came upon material things—
          Fair flowers, bright waterfalls and angel wings—
          And sound alone that from the spirit sprang
          Bore burthen to the charm the maiden sang:

     * Eyraco—Chaldea.

     ** I have often thought I could distinctly hear the sound of
     the darkness as it stole over the horizon.

     *** Fairies use flowers for their charactery.—<i>Merry Wives
     of Windsor</i>.  [William Shakespeare]

           “‘Neath blue-bell or streamer—
               Or tufted wild spray
           That keeps, from the dreamer,
               *The moonbeam away—
             Bright beings!  that ponder,
               With half closing eyes,
           On the stars which your wonder
               Hath drawn from the skies,
           Till they glance thro’ the shade, and
               Come down to your brow
           Like—eyes of the maiden
               Who calls on you now—
           Arise!  from your dreaming
               In violet bowers,
           To duty beseeming
               These star-litten hours—
           And shake from your tresses
               Encumber’d with dew
           The breath of those kisses
               That cumber them too—
           (O!  how, without you, Love!
               Could angels be blest?)
           Those kisses of true love
               That lull’d ye to rest!
           Up!—shake from your wing
               Each hindering thing:
           The dew of the night—
               It would weigh down your flight;
           And true love caresses—
               O! leave them apart!

     * In Scripture is this passage—“The sun shall not harm
     thee by day, nor the moon by night.” It is perhaps not
     generally known that the moon, in Egypt, has the effect of
     producing blindness to those who sleep with the face exposed
     to its rays, to which circumstance the passage evidently
     alludes.

          They are light on the tresses,
              But lead on the heart.

          Ligeia!  Ligeia!
              My beautiful one!
          Whose harshest idea
              Will to melody run,
          O!  is it thy will
              On the breezes to toss?
          Or, capriciously still,
              *Like the lone Albatross,
          Incumbent on night
              (As she on the air)
          To keep watch with delight
              On the harmony there?

          Ligeia!  whatever
              Thy image may be,
          No magic shall sever
              Thy music from thee.
          Thou hast bound many eyes
              In a dreamy sleep—
          But the strains still arise
              Which <i>thy</i> vigilance keep—
          The sound of the rain
              Which leaps down to the flower,
          And dances again
              In the rhythm of the shower—
          **The murmur that springs
              From the growing of grass

     * The Albatross is said to sleep on the wing.

     ** I met with this idea in an old English tale, which I am
     now unable to obtain and quote from memory:—“The verie
     essence and, as it were, springe-heade, and origine of all
     musiche is the verie pleasaunte sounde which the trees of
     the forest do make when they growe.”

          Are the music of things—
              But are modell’d, alas!—
          Away, then my dearest,
              O!  hie thee away
          To springs that lie clearest
              Beneath the moon-ray—
           To lone lake that smiles,
              In its dream of deep rest,
          At the many star-isles
              That enjewel its breast—
          Where wild flowers, creeping,
              Have mingled their shade,
          On its margin is sleeping
              Full many a maid—
          Some have left the cool glade, and
              * Have slept with the bee—
          Arouse them my maiden,
              On moorland and lea—
          Go!  breathe on their slumber,
              All softly in ear,
          The musical number
              They slumber’d to hear—
          For what can awaken
              An angel so soon

     * The wild bee will not sleep in the shade if there be
     moonlight. The rhyme in this verse, as in one about sixty
     lines before, has an appearance of affectation. It is,
     however, imitated from Sir W. Scott, or rather from Claud
     Halcro—in whose mouth I admired its effect:

                O!  were there an island,
                    Tho’ ever so wild
                Where woman might smile, and
                    No man be beguil’d, &amp;c.

          Whose sleep hath been taken
              Beneath the cold moon,
          As the spell which no slumber
              Of witchery may test,
          The rythmical number
              Which lull’d him to rest?”

          Spirits in wing, and angels to the view,
          A thousand seraphs burst th’ Empyrean thro’,
          Young dreams still hovering on their drowsy flight—
          Seraphs in all but “Knowledge,” the keen light
          That fell, refracted, thro’ thy bounds, afar
          O Death!  from eye of God upon that star:
          Sweet was that error—sweeter still that death—
          Sweet was that error—ev’n with <i>us</i> the breath
          Of science dims the mirror of our joy—
          To them ‘twere the Simoom, and would destroy—
          For what (to them) availeth it to know
          That Truth is Falsehood—or that Bliss is Woe?
          Sweet was their death—with them to die was rife
          With the last ecstacy of satiate life—
          Beyond that death no immortality—
          But sleep that pondereth and is not “to be”—
          And there—oh!  may my weary spirit dwell—
          *Apart from Heaven’s Eternity—and yet how far from Hell!

     * With the Arabians there is a medium between Heaven and
     Hell, where men suffer no punishment, but yet do not attain
     that tranquil and even happiness which they suppose to be
     characteristic of heavenly enjoyment.

            Un no rompido sueno—
            Un dia puro—allegre—libre
            Quiera—
            Libre de amor—de zelo—
            De odio—de esperanza—de rezelo.—-<i>Luis Ponce de Leon</i>.

     Sorrow is not excluded from “Al Aaraaf,” but it is that
     sorrow which the living love to cherish for the dead, and
     which, in some minds, resembles the delirium of opium. The
     passionate excitement of Love and the buoyancy of spirit
     attendant upon intoxication are its less holy pleasures—
     the price of which, to those souls who make choice of “Al
     Aaraaf” as their residence after life, is final death and
     annihilation.

          What guilty spirit, in what shrubbery dim,
          Heard not the stirring summons of that hymn?
          But two:  they fell:  for Heaven no grace imparts
          To those who hear not for their beating hearts.
          A maiden-angel and her seraph-lover—
          O!  where (and ye may seek the wide skies over)
          Was Love, the blind, near sober Duty known?

     *Unguided Love hath fallen—‘mid “tears of perfect moan.”

          He was a goodly spirit—he who fell:
          A wanderer by moss-y-mantled well—
          A gazer on the lights that shine above—
          A dreamer in the moonbeam by his love:
          What wonder?  For each star is eye-like there,
          And looks so sweetly down on Beauty’s hair—
          And they, and ev’ry mossy spring were holy
          To his love-haunted heart and melancholy.
          The night had found (to him a night of wo)
          Upon a mountain crag, young Angelo—
          Beetling it bends athwart the solemn sky,
          And scowls on starry worlds that down beneath it lie.
          Here sate he with his love—his dark eye bent
          With eagle gaze along the firmament:
          Now turn’d it upon her—but ever then
          It trembled to the orb of EARTH again.

          “Iante, dearest, see!  how dim that ray!
          How lovely ‘tis to look so far away!

     * There be tears of perfect moan
         Wept for thee in Helicon.—<i>Milton.</i>

          She seem’d not thus upon that autumn eve
          I left her gorgeous halls—nor mourn’d to leave.
          That eve—that eve—I should remember well—
          The sun-ray dropp’d, in Lemnos, with a spell
          On th’Arabesque carving of a gilded hall
          Wherein I sate, and on the draperied wall—
          And on my eye-lids—O the heavy light!
          How drowsily it weigh’d them into night!
          On flowers, before, and mist, and love they ran
          With Persian Saadi in his Gulistan:
          But O that light!—I slumber’d—Death, the while,
          Stole o’er my senses in that lovely isle
          So softly that no single silken hair
          Awoke that slept—or knew that it was there.

          The last spot of Earth’s orb I trod upon
          *Was a proud temple call’d the Parthenon—
          More beauty clung around her column’d wall
          **Than ev’n thy glowing bosom beats withal,
          And when old Time my wing did disenthral
          Thence sprang I—as the eagle from his tower,
          And years I left behind me in an hour.
          What time upon her airy bounds I hung
          One half the garden of her globe was flung
          Unrolling as a chart unto my view—
          Tenantless cities of the desert too!
          Ianthe, beauty crowded on me then,
          And half I wish’d to be again of men.”

          “My Angelo! and why of them to be?
          A brighter dwelling-place is here for thee—

    * It was entire in 1687—the most elevated spot in Athens.

    ** Shadowing more beauty in their airy brows
       Than have the white breasts of the Queen of Love.—<i>Marlowe.</i>

           And greener fields than in yon world above,
           And women’s loveliness—and passionate love.”

           “But, list, Ianthe! when the air so soft
           *Fail’d, as my pennon’d spirit leapt aloft,
           Perhaps my brain grew dizzy—but the world
           I left so late was into chaos hurl’d—
           Sprang from her station, on the winds apart,
           And roll’d, a flame, the fiery Heaven athwart.
           Methought, my sweet one, then I ceased to soar
           And fell—not swiftly as I rose before,
           But with a downward, tremulous motion thro’
           Light, brazen rays, this golden star unto!
           Nor long the measure of my falling hours,
           For nearest of all stars was thine to ours—
           Dread star! that came, amid a night of mirth,
           A red D?dalion on the timid Earth.

           “We came—and to thy Earth—but not to us
           Be given our lady’s bidding to discuss:
           We came, my love; around, above, below,
           Gay fire-fly of the night we come and go,
           Nor ask a reason save the angel-nod
           She grants to us, as granted by her God—
           But, Angelo, than thine grey Time unfurl’d
           Never his fairy wing o’er fairier world!
           Dim was its little disk, and angel eyes
           Alone could see the phantom in the skies,
           When first Al Aaraaf knew her course to be
           Headlong thitherward o’er the starry sea—
           But when its glory swell’d upon the sky,
           As glowing Beauty’s bust beneath man’s eye,

     * Pennon—for pinion.—<i>Milton</i>.

           We paus’d before the heritage of men,
           And thy star trembled—as doth Beauty then!”

           Thus, in discourse, the lovers whiled away
           The night that waned and waned and brought no day.
           They fell:  for Heaven to them no hope imparts
           Who hear not for the beating of their hearts.
</pre>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0047">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      TAMERLANE
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     KIND solace in a dying hour!
         Such, father, is not (now) my theme—
     I will not madly deem that power
             Of Earth may shrive me of the sin
             Unearthly pride hath revell’d in—
         I have no time to dote or dream:
     You call it hope—that fire of fire!
     It is but agony of desire:
     If I <i>can</i> hope—Oh God! I can—
         Its fount is holier—more divine—
     I would not call thee fool, old man,
         But such is not a gift of thine.

     Know thou the secret of a spirit
         Bow’d from its wild pride into shame.
     O! yearning heart! I did inherit
         Thy withering portion with the fame,
     The searing glory which hath shone
     Amid the jewels of my throne,
     Halo of Hell! and with a pain
     Not Hell shall make me fear again—
     O! craving heart, for the lost flowers
     And sunshine of my summer hours!
     Th’ undying voice of that dead time,
     With its interminable chime,
     Rings, in the spirit of a spell,
     Upon thy emptiness—a knell.

     I have not always been as now:
     The fever’d diadem on my brow
         I claim’d and won usurpingly—
     Hath not the same fierce heirdom given
         Rome to the Caesar—this to me?
             The heritage of a kingly mind,
     And a proud spirit which hath striven
             Triumphantly with human kind.

     On mountain soil I first drew life:
         The mists of the Taglay have shed
         Nightly their dews upon my head,
     And, I believe, the winged strife
     And tumult of the headlong air
     Have nestled in my very hair.

     So late from Heaven—that dew—it fell
         (Mid dreams of an unholy night)
     Upon me—with the touch of Hell,
         While the red flashing of the light
     From clouds that hung, like banners, o’er,
         Appeared to my half-closing eye
         The pageantry of monarchy,
     And the deep trumpet-thunder’s roar
         Came hurriedly upon me, telling
             Of human battle, where my voice,
         My own voice, silly child!—was swelling
             (O! how my spirit would rejoice,
     And leap within me at the cry)
     The battle-cry of Victory!

     The rain came down upon my head
         Unshelter’d—and the heavy wind
         Was giantlike—so thou, my mind!—
     It was but man, I thought, who shed
         Laurels upon me: and the rush—
     The torrent of the chilly air
     Gurgled within my ear the crush
         Of empires—with the captive’s prayer—
     The hum of suiters—and the tone
     Of flattery ‘round a sovereign’s throne.

     My passions, from that hapless hour,
         Usurp’d a tyranny which men
     Have deem’d, since I have reach’d to power;
             My innate nature—be it so:
         But, father, there liv’d one who, then,
     Then—in my boyhood—when their fire
             Burn’d with a still intenser glow,
     (For passion must, with youth, expire)
         E’en <i>then</i> who knew this iron heart
         In woman’s weakness had a part.

     I have no words—alas!—to tell
     The loveliness of loving well!
     Nor would I now attempt to trace
     The more than beauty of a face
     Whose lineaments, upon my mind,
     Are—shadows on th’ unstable wind:
     Thus I remember having dwelt
     Some page of early lore upon,
     With loitering eye, till I have felt
     The letters—with their meaning—melt
     To fantasies—with none.

     O, she was worthy of all love!
     Love—as in infancy was mine—
     ‘Twas such as angel minds above
     Might envy; her young heart the shrine
     On which my ev’ry hope and thought
         Were incense—then a goodly gift,
             For they were childish—and upright—
     Pure—as her young example taught:
         Why did I leave it, and, adrift,
             Trust to the fire within, for light?

     We grew in age—and love—together,
         Roaming the forest, and the wild;
     My breast her shield in wintry weather—
         And, when the friendly sunshine smil’d,
     And she would mark the opening skies,
     <i>I</i> saw no Heaven—but in her eyes.

     Young Love’s first lesson is—the heart:
         For ‘mid that sunshine, and those smiles,
     When, from our little cares apart,
         And laughing at her girlish wiles,
     I’d throw me on her throbbing breast,
         And pour my spirit out in tears—
     There was no need to speak the rest—
         No need to quiet any fears
     Of her—who ask’d no reason why,
     But turn’d on me her quiet eye!

     Yet <i>more</i> than worthy of the love
     My spirit struggled with, and strove,
     When, on the mountain peak, alone,
     Ambition lent it a new tone—
     I had no being—but in thee:
         The world, and all it did contain
     In the earth—the air—the sea—
         Its joy—its little lot of pain
     That was new pleasure—the ideal,
         Dim, vanities of dreams by night—
     And dimmer nothings which were real—
         (Shadows—and a more shadowy light!)
     Parted upon their misty wings,
             And, so, confusedly, became
             Thine image, and—a name—a name!
     Two separate—yet most intimate things.

     I was ambitious—have you known
             The passion, father? You have not:
     A cottager, I mark’d a throne
     Of half the world as all my own,
             And murmur’d at such lowly lot—
     But, just like any other dream,
             Upon the vapour of the dew
     My own had past, did not the beam
             Of beauty which did while it thro’
     The minute—the hour—the day—oppress
     My mind with double loveliness.

     We walk’d together on the crown
     Of a high mountain which look’d down
     Afar from its proud natural towers
         Of rock and forest, on the hills—
     The dwindled hills! begirt with bowers
         And shouting with a thousand rills.

     I spoke to her of power and pride,
         But mystically—in such guise
     That she might deem it nought beside
         The moment’s converse; in her eyes
     I read, perhaps too carelessly—
         A mingled feeling with my own—
     The flush on her bright cheek, to me
         Seem’d to become a queenly throne
     Too well that I should let it be
         Light in the wilderness alone.

     I wrapp’d myself in grandeur then,
         And donn’d a visionary crown—
             Yet it was not that Fantasy
             Had thrown her mantle over me—
     But that, among the rabble—men,
             Lion ambition is chain’d down—
     And crouches to a keeper’s hand—
     Not so in deserts where the grand
     The wild—the terrible conspire
     With their own breath to fan his fire.

     Look ‘round thee now on Samarcand!—
         Is not she queen of Earth? her pride
     Above all cities? in her hand
         Their destinies? in all beside
     Of glory which the world hath known
     Stands she not nobly and alone?
     Falling—her veriest stepping-stone
     Shall form the pedestal of a throne—
     And who her sovereign? Timour—he
         Whom the astonished people saw
     Striding o’er empires haughtily
         A diadem’d outlaw—

     O! human love! thou spirit given,
     On Earth, of all we hope in Heaven!
     Which fall’st into the soul like rain
     Upon the Siroc wither’d plain,
     And failing in thy power to bless
     But leav’st the heart a wilderness!
     Idea! which bindest life around
     With music of so strange a sound
     And beauty of so wild a birth—
     Farewell! for I have won the Earth!

     When Hope, the eagle that tower’d, could see
         No cliff beyond him in the sky,
     His pinions were bent droopingly—
         And homeward turn’d his soften’d eye.
     ‘Twas sunset: when the sun will part
     There comes a sullenness of heart
     To him who still would look upon
     The glory of the summer sun.
     That soul will hate the ev’ning mist,
     So often lovely, and will list
     To the sound of the coming darkness (known
     To those whose spirits hearken) as one
     Who, in a dream of night, <i>would</i> fly
     But <i>cannot</i> from a danger nigh.

     What tho’ the moon—the white moon
     Shed all the splendour of her noon,
     Her smile is chilly—and her beam,
     In that time of dreariness, will seem
     (So like you gather in your breath)
     A portrait taken after death.
     And boyhood is a summer sun
     Whose waning is the dreariest one—
     For all we live to know is known,
     And all we seek to keep hath flown—
     Let life, then, as the day-flower, fall
     With the noon-day beauty—which is all.

     I reach’d my home—my home no more—
         For all had flown who made it so—
     I pass’d from out its mossy door,
         And, tho’ my tread was soft and low,
     A voice came from the threshold stone
     Of one whom I had earlier known—
         O! I defy thee, Hell, to show
         On beds of fire that burn below,
         A humbler heart—a deeper wo—

     Father, I firmly do believe—
         I <i>know</i>—for Death, who comes for me
             From regions of the blest afar,
     Where there is nothing to deceive,
             Hath left his iron gate ajar,
         And rays of truth you cannot see
         Are flashing thro’ Eternity—
     I do believe that Eblis hath
     A snare in ev’ry human path—
     Else how, when in the holy grove
     I wandered of the idol, Love,
     Who daily scents his snowy wings
     With incense of burnt offerings
     From the most unpolluted things,
     Whose pleasant bowers are yet so riven
     Above with trelliced rays from Heaven
     No mote may shun—no tiniest fly
     The light’ning of his eagle eye—
     How was it that Ambition crept,
         Unseen, amid the revels there,
     Till growing bold, he laughed and leapt
         In the tangles of Love’s very hair?
</pre>
<p>
      1829. <a name="2151link2H_4_0048">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      TO HELEN
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     HELEN, thy beauty is to me
         Like those Nicean barks of yore,
     That gently, o’er a perfumed sea,
         The weary way-worn wanderer bore
         To his own native shore.

     On desperate seas long wont to roam,
         Thy hyacinth hair, thy classic face,
     Thy Naiad airs have brought me home
         To the glory that was Greece,
     And the grandeur that was Rome.

     Lo! in yon brilliant window-niche
         How statue-like I me thee stand,
     The agate lamp within thy hand!
         Ah, Psyche, from the regions which
         Are Holy-land!
</pre>
<p>
      1831. <a name="2151link2H_4_0049">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      THE VALLEY OF UNREST
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     <i>Once</i> it smiled a silent dell
     Where the people did not dwell;
     They had gone unto the wars,
     Trusting to the mild-eyed stars,
     Nightly, from their azure towers,
     To keep watch above the flowers,
     In the midst of which all day
     The red sun-light lazily lay.
     <i>Now</i> each visiter shall confess
     The sad valley’s restlessness.
     Nothing there is motionless—
     Nothing save the airs that brood
     Over the magic solitude.
     Ah, by no wind are stirred those trees
     That palpitate like the chill seas
     Around the misty Hebrides!
     Ah, by no wind those clouds are driven
     That rustle through the unquiet Heaven
     Uneasily, from morn till even,
     Over the violets there that lie
     In myriad types of the human eye—
     Over the lilies there that wave
     And weep above a nameless grave!
     They wave:—from out their fragrant tops
     Eternal dews come down in drops.
     They weep:—from off their delicate stems
     Perennial tears descend in gems.
</pre>
<p>
      1831. <a name="2151link2H_4_0050">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      ISRAFEL*
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     IN Heaven a spirit doth dwell
         “Whose heart-strings are a lute;”
      None sing so wildly well
     As the angel Israfel,
     And the giddy stars (so legends tell)
     Ceasing their hymns, attend the spell
         Of his voice, all mute.

     Tottering above
         In her highest noon
         The enamoured moon
     Blushes with love,
         While, to listen, the red levin
         (With the rapid Pleiads, even,
         Which were seven,)
         Pauses in Heaven

     And they say (the starry choir
         And all the listening things)
     That Israfeli’s fire
     Is owing to that lyre
         By which he sits and sings—
     The trembling living wire
     Of those unusual strings.

  * And the angel Israfel, whose heart-strings are a lut, and
  who has the sweetest voice of all God’s creatures.—KORAN.

     But the skies that angel trod,
         Where deep thoughts are a duty—
     Where Love’s a grown up God—
         Where the Houri glances are
     Imbued with all the beauty
         Which we worship in a star.

     Therefore, thou art not wrong,
         Israfeli, who despisest
     An unimpassion’d song:
     To thee the laurels belong
         Best bard, because the wisest!
     Merrily live, and long!

     The extacies above
         With thy burning measures suit—
     Thy grief, thy joy, thy hate, thy love,
         With the fervor of thy lute—
         Well may the stars be mute!

     Yes, Heaven is thine; but this
         Is a world of sweets and sours;
         Our flowers are merely—flowers,
     And the shadow of thy perfect bliss
         Is the sunshine of ours.

     If I could dwell
     Where Israfel
         Hath dwelt, and he where I,
     He might not sing so wildly well
         A mortal melody,
     While a bolder note than this might swell
         From my lyre within the sky.
</pre>
<p>
      1836. <a name="2151link2H_4_0051">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      TO ——
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
                     1

     The bowers whereat, in dreams, I see
         The wantonest singing birds
     Are lips—and all thy melody
         Of lip-begotten words—

                      2

     Thine eyes, in Heaven of heart enshrin’d
         Then desolately fall,
     O! God! on my funereal mind
         Like starlight on a pall—

                       3

     Thy heart—<i>thy</i> heart!—I wake and sigh,
         And sleep to dream till day
     Of truth that gold can never buy—
         Of the trifles that it may.
</pre>
<p>
      1829. <a name="2151link2H_4_0052">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      TO ——
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     I HEED not that my earthly lot

         Hath-little of Earth in it—

     That years of love have been forgot

     In the hatred of a minute:—

     I mourn not that the desolate

         Are happier, sweet, than I,

     But that you sorrow for my fate

     Who am a passer-by.
</pre>
<p>
      1829. <a name="2151link2H_4_0053">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      TO THE RIVER——
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     FAIR river! in thy bright, clear flow
         Of crystal, wandering water,
     Thou art an emblem of the glow
             Of beauty—the unhidden heart—
             The playful maziness of art
     In old Alberto’s daughter;

     But when within thy wave she looks—
             Which glistens then, and trembles—
     Why, then, the prettiest of brooks
             Her worshipper resembles;
     For in my heart, as in thy stream,
         Her image deeply lies—
     His heart which trembles at the beam
         Of her soul-searching eyes.
</pre>
<p>
      1829. <a name="2151link2H_4_0054">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      SONG
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     I SAW thee on thy bridal day—
         When a burning blush came o’er thee,
     Though happiness around thee lay,
         The world all love before thee:

     And in thine eye a kindling light
         (Whatever it might be)
     Was all on Earth my aching sight
        Of Loveliness could see.

     That blush, perhaps, was maiden shame—
         As such it well may pass—
     Though its glow hath raised a fiercer flame
         In the breast of him, alas!

     Who saw thee on that bridal day,
         When that deep blush <i>would</i> come o’er thee,
     Though happiness around thee lay,
         The world all love before thee.
</pre>
<p>
      1827. <a name="2151link2H_4_0055">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      SPIRITS OF THE DEAD
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
                                 1

     Thy soul shall find itself alone
     ‘Mid dark thoughts of the grey tomb-stone—
     Not one, of all the crowd, to pry
     Into thine hour of secrecy:

                                 2

     Be silent in that solitude
         Which is not loneliness—for then
     The spirits of the dead who stood
         In life before thee are again
     In death around thee—and their will
     Shall then overshadow thee: be still.

                                3

     For the night—tho’ clear—shall frown—
     And the stars shall look not down,
     From their high thrones in the Heaven,
     With light like Hope to mortals given—
     But their red orbs, without beam,
     To thy weariness shall seem
     As a burning and a fever
     Which would cling to thee for ever:

                               4

     Now are thoughts thou shalt not banish—
     Now are visions ne’er to vanish—
     From thy spirit shall they pass
     No more—like dew-drop from the grass:

                              5

     The breeze—the breath of God—is still—
     And the mist upon the hill
     Shadowy—shadowy—yet unbroken,
     Is a symbol and a token—
     How it hangs upon the trees,
     A mystery of mysteries!—
</pre>
<p>
      1827. <a name="2151link2H_4_0056">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      A DREAM
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     In visions of the dark night
         I have dreamed of joy departed—
     But a waking dreams of life and light
         Hath left me broken-hearted.

     Ah! what is not a dream by day
         To him whose eyes are cast
     On things around him with a ray
         Turned back upon the past?

     That holy dream—that holy dream,
         While all the world were chiding,
     Hath cheered me as a lovely beam
         A lonely spirit guiding.

     What though that light, thro’ storm and night,
         So trembled from afar-
     What could there be more purely bright
         In Truths day-star?
</pre>
<p>
      1827. <a name="2151link2H_4_0057">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      ROMANCE
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     ROMANCE, who loves to nod and sing,
     With drowsy head and folded wing,
     Among the green leaves as they shake
     Far down within some shadowy lake,
     To me a painted paroquet
     Hath been—a most familiar bird—
     Taught me my alphabet to say—
     To lisp my very earliest word
     While in the wild wood I did lie,
     A child—with a most knowing eye.

     Of late, eternal Condor years
     So shake the very Heaven on high
     With tumult as they thunder by,
     I have no time for idle cares
     Through gazing on the unquiet sky.
     And when an hour with calmer wings
     Its down upon thy spirit flings—
     That little time with lyre and rhyme
     To while away—forbidden things!
     My heart would feel to be a crime
     Unless it trembled with the strings.

     1829.
</pre>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0058">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      FAIRY-LAND
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     DIM vales—and shadowy floods—
     And cloudy-looking woods,
     Whose forms we can’t discover
     For the tears that drip all over
     Huge moons there wax and wane—
     Again—again—again—
     Every moment of the night—
     Forever changing places—
     And they put out the star-light
     With the breath from their pale faces.
     About twelve by the moon-dial
     One, more filmy than the rest
     (A kind which, upon trial,
     They have found to be the best)
     Comes down—still down—and down
     With its centre on the crown
     Of a mountain’s eminence,
     While its wide circumference
     In easy drapery falls
     Over hamlets, over halls,
     Wherever they may be—
     O’er the strange woods—o’er the sea—
     Over spirits on the wing—
     Over every drowsy thing—
     And buries them up quite
     In a labyrinth of light—
     And then, how deep!—O, deep!
     Is the passion of their sleep.
     In the morning they arise,
     And their moony covering
     Is soaring in the skies,
     With the tempests as they toss,
     Like—almost any thing—
     Or a yellow Albatross.
     They use that moon no more
     For the same end as before—
     Videlicet a tent—
     Which I think extravagant:
     Its atomies, however,
     Into a shower dissever,
     Of which those butterflies,
     Of Earth, who seek the skies,
     And so come down again
     (Never-contented things!)
     Have brought a specimen
     Upon their quivering wings.

     1831.
</pre>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0059">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      THE LAKE —— TO——
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     IN spring of youth it was my lot
     To haunt of the wide earth a spot
     The which I could not love the less—
     So lovely was the loneliness
     Of a wild lake, with black rock bound,
     And the tall pines that tower’d around.

     But when the Night had thrown her pall
     Upon that spot, as upon all,
     And the mystic wind went by
     Murmuring in melody—
     Then—ah then I would awake
     To the terror of the lone lake.

     Yet that terror was not fright,
     But a tremulous delight—
     A feeling not the jewelled mine
     Could teach or bribe me to define—
     Nor Love—although the Love were thine.

     Death was in that poisonous wave,
     And in its gulf a fitting grave
     For him who thence could solace bring
     To his lone imagining—
     Whose solitary soul could make
     An Eden of that dim lake.

     1827.
</pre>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0060">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      EVENING STAR
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     ‘TWAS noontide of summer,
        And midtime of night,
     And stars, in their orbits,
        Shone pale, through the light
     Of the brighter, cold moon.
        ‘Mid planets her slaves,
     Herself in the Heavens,
        Her beam on the waves.

        I gazed awhile
        On her cold smile;
     Too cold-too cold for me—
        There passed, as a shroud,
        A fleecy cloud,
     And I turned away to thee,

        Proud Evening Star,
        In thy glory afar
     And dearer thy beam shall be;
        For joy to my heart
        Is the proud part
     Thou bearest in Heaven at night.,
        And more I admire
        Thy distant fire,
     Than that colder, lowly light.

     1827.
</pre>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0061">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      “THE HAPPIEST DAY.”
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     I

     THE happiest day-the happiest hour
     My seared and blighted heart hath known,
     The highest hope of pride and power,
     I feel hath flown.

     Of power! said I? Yes! such I ween
     But they have vanished long, alas!
     The visions of my youth have been
     But let them pass.

     III

     And pride, what have I now with thee?
     Another brow may ev’n inherit
     The venom thou hast poured on me
     Be still my spirit!

     IV

     The happiest day-the happiest hour
     Mine eyes shall see-have ever seen
     The brightest glance of pride and power
     I feet have been:

     V

     But were that hope of pride and power
     Now offered with the pain
     Ev’n <i>then I </i>felt-that brightest hour
     I would not live again:

             VI

     For on its wing was dark alloy
     And as it fluttered-fell
     An essence-powerful to destroy
     A soul that knew it well.

     1827.
</pre>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0062">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      IMITATION
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     A dark unfathom’d tide
     Of interminable pride—
     A mystery, and a dream,
     Should my early life seem;
     I say that dream was fraught
     With a wild, and waking thought
     Of beings that have been,
     Which my spirit hath not seen,
     Had I let them pass me by,
     With a dreaming eye!
     Let none of earth inherit
     That vision on my spirit;
     Those thoughts I would control
     As a spell upon his soul:
     For that bright hope at last
     And that light time have past,
     And my worldly rest hath gone
     With a sigh as it pass’d on
     I care not tho’ it perish
     With a thought I then did cherish.
     1827.
</pre>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0063">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      HYMN TO ARISTOGEITON AND HARMODIUS
    </h2>
<h3>
      Translation from the Greek
    </h3>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
                I

     WREATHED in myrtle, my sword I’ll conceal
     Like those champions devoted and brave,
     When they plunged in the tyrant their steel,
     And to Athens deliverance gave.

                II

     Beloved heroes! your deathless souls roam
     In the joy breathing isles of the blest;
     Where the mighty of old have their home
     Where Achilles and Diomed rest

                III

     In fresh myrtle my blade I’ll entwine,
     Like Harmodius, the gallant and good,
     When he made at the tutelar shrine
     A libation of Tyranny’s blood.

                IV

     Ye deliverers of Athens from shame!
     Ye avengers of Liberty’s wrongs!
     Endless ages shall cherish your fame,
     Embalmed in their echoing songs!

     1827.
</pre>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0064">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      DREAMS
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     Oh! that my young life were a lasting dream!
     My spirit not awak’ning, till the beam
     Of an Eternity should bring the morrow:
     Yes! tho’ that long dream were of hopeless sorrow,
     ‘Twere better than the dull reality
     Of waking life to him whose heart shall be,
     And hath been ever, on the chilly earth,
     A chaos of deep passion from his birth!

     But should it be—that dream eternally
     Continuing—as dreams have been to me
     In my young boyhood—should it thus be given,
     ‘Twere folly still to hope for higher Heaven!
     For I have revell’d, when the sun was bright
     In the summer sky; in dreamy fields of light,
     And left unheedingly my very heart
     In climes of mine imagining—apart
     From mine own home, with beings that have been
     Of mine own thought—what more could I have seen?

     ‘Twas once &amp; <i>only</i> once &amp; the wild hour
     From my rememberance shall not pass—some power
     Or spell had bound me—‘twas the chilly wind
     Came o’er me in the night &amp; left behind
     Its image on my spirit, or the moon
     Shone on my slumbers in her lofty noon
     Too coldly—or the stars—howe’er it was
     That dream was as that night wind—let it pass.

     I have been happy—tho’ but in a dream
     I have been happy—&amp; I love the theme—
     Dreams! in their vivid colouring of life—
     As in that fleeting, shadowy, misty strife
     Of semblance with reality which brings
     To the delirious eye more lovely things
     Of Paradise &amp; Love—&amp; all our own!
     Than young Hope in his sunniest hour hath known.

         {From an earlier MS. Than in the book—ED.}
</pre>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0065">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      “IN YOUTH I HAVE KNOWN ONE”
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     <i>How often we forget all time, when lone
     Admiring Nature’s universal throne;
     Her woods—her wilds—her mountains-the intense
     Reply of Hers to Our intelligence!</i>

                             I

     IN youth I have known one with whom the Earth
         In secret communing held-as he with it,
     In daylight, and in beauty, from his birth:
         Whose fervid, flickering torch of life was lit
     From the sun and stars, whence he had drawn forth
         A passionate light such for his spirit was fit
     And yet that spirit knew-not in the hour
         Of its own fervor-what had o’er it power.

                            II

     Perhaps it may be that my mind is wrought
         To a fever* by the moonbeam that hangs o’er,
     But I will half believe that wild light fraught
         With more of sovereignty than ancient lore
     Hath ever told-or is it of a thought
         The unembodied essence, and no more
     That with a quickening spell doth o’er us pass
         As dew of the night-time, o’er the summer grass?

                                   III

     Doth o’er us pass, when, as th’ expanding eye
         To the loved object-so the tear to the lid
     Will start, which lately slept in apathy?
         And yet it need not be—(that object) hid
     From us in life-but common-which doth lie
         Each hour before us—but then only bid
     With a strange sound, as of a harp-string broken
         T’ awake us—‘Tis a symbol and a token

                               IV

     Of what in other worlds shall be—and given
         In beauty by our God, to those alone
     Who otherwise would fall from life and Heaven
         Drawn by their heart’s passion, and that tone,
     That high tone of the spirit which hath striven
         Though not with Faith-with godliness—whose throne
     With desperate energy ‘t hath beaten down;
         Wearing its own deep feeling as a crown.

          * Query “fervor”?—ED.
</pre>
<p>
      A P?AN.
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
                         I.

     How shall the burial rite be read?
         The solemn song be sung?
     The requiem for the loveliest dead,
         That ever died so young?

                         II.

     Her friends are gazing on her,
         And on her gaudy bier,
     And weep!—oh! to dishonor
         Dead beauty with a tear!

                        III.

     They loved her for her wealth—
         And they hated her for her pride—
     But she grew in feeble health,
         And they <i>love</i> her—that she died.

                       IV.

     They tell me (while they speak
         Of her “costly broider’d pall”)
     That my voice is growing weak—
         That I should not sing at all—

                        V.

     Or that my tone should be
         Tun’d to such solemn song
     So mournfully—so mournfully,
         That the dead may feel no wrong.

                       VI.

     But she is gone above,
         With young Hope at her side,
     And I am drunk with love
         Of the dead, who is my bride.—

                      VII.

     Of the dead—dead who lies
         All perfum’d there,
     With the death upon her eyes,
         And the life upon her hair.

                     VIII.

     Thus on the coffin loud and long
         I strike—the murmur sent
     Through the grey chambers to my song,
         Shall be the accompaniment.

                      IX.

     Thou died’st in thy life’s June—
         But thou did’st not die too fair:
     Thou did’st not die too soon,
         Nor with too calm an air.

                       X.

     From more than fiends on earth,
         Thy life and love are riven,
     To join the untainted mirth
         Of more than thrones in heaven—

                      XII.

     Therefore, to thee this night
         I will no requiem raise,
     But waft thee on thy flight,
         With a P?an of old days.
</pre>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_NOTE2">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      NOTES
    </h2>
<p>
      30. On the “Poems written in Youth” little comment is needed.
      This section includes the pieces printed for first volume of 1827 (which
      was subsequently suppressed), such poems from the first and second
      published volumes of 1829 and 1831 as have not already been given in their
      revised versions, and a few others collected from various sources. “Al
      Aaraaf” first appeared, with the sonnet “To Silence”
      prefixed to it, in 1829, and is, substantially, as originally issued. In
      the edition for 1831, however, this poem, its author’s longest, was
      introduced by the following twenty-nine lines, which have been omitted in—all
      subsequent collections:
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     AL AARAAF

     Mysterious star!
     Thou wert my dream
     All a long summer night—
     Be now my theme!
     By this clear stream,
     Of thee will I write;
     Meantime from afar
     Bathe me in light I

     Thy world has not the dross of ours,
     Yet all the beauty-all the flowers
     That list our love or deck our bowers
     In dreamy gardens, where do lie
     Dreamy maidens all the day;
     While the silver winds of Circassy
     On violet couches faint away.
     Little—oh “little dwells in thee”
      Like unto what on earth we see:
     Beauty’s eye is here the bluest
     In the falsest and untruest—On the sweetest
     air doth float
     The most sad and solemn note—

     If with thee be broken hearts,
     Joy so peacefully departs,
     That its echo still doth dwell,
     Like the murmur in the shell.
     Thou! thy truest type of grief
     Is the gently falling leaf!
     Thy framing is so holy
     Sorrow is not melancholy.
</pre>
<p>
      31. The earliest version of “Tamerlane” was included in the
      suppressed volume of 1827, but differs very considerably from the poem as
      now published. The present draft, besides innumerable verbal alterations
      and improvements upon the original, is more carefully punctuated, and, the
      lines being indented, presents a more pleasing appearance, to the eye at
      least.
    </p>
<p>
      32. “To Helen” first appeared in the 1831 volume, as did also
      “The Valley of Unrest” (as “The Valley Nis”),
      “Israfel,” and one or two others of the youthful pieces. The
      poem styled “Romance,” constituted the Preface of the 1829
      volume, but with the addition of the following lines:
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     Succeeding years, too wild for song,
     Then rolled like tropic storms along,
     Where, through the garish lights that fly
     Dying along the troubled sky,
     Lay bare, through vistas thunder-riven,
     The blackness of the general Heaven,
     That very blackness yet doth Ring
     Light on the lightning’s silver wing.

     For being an idle boy lang syne;
     Who read Anacreon and drank wine,
     I early found Anacreon rhymes
     Were almost passionate sometimes—
     And by strange alchemy of brain
     His pleasures always turned to pain—
     His naivet? to wild desire—
     His wit to love-his wine to fire—
     And so, being young and dipt in folly,
     I fell in love with melancholy,

     And used to throw my earthly rest
     And quiet all away in jest—
     I could not love except where Death
     Was mingling his with Beauty’s breath—
     Or Hymen, Time, and Destiny,
     Were stalking between her and me.
</pre>
<hr/>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     But now my soul hath too much room—
     Gone are the glory and the gloom—
     The black hath mellow’d into gray,
     And all the fires are fading away.

     My draught of passion hath been deep—
     I revell’d, and I now would sleep
     And after drunkenness of soul
     Succeeds the glories of the bowl
     An idle longing night and day
     To dream my very life away.

     But dreams—of those who dream as I,
     Aspiringly, are damned, and die:
     Yet should I swear I mean alone,
     By notes so very shrilly blown,
     To break upon Time’s monotone,
     While yet my vapid joy and grief
     Are tintless of the yellow leaf—
     Why not an imp the graybeard hath,
     Will shake his shadow in my path—
     And e’en the graybeard will o’erlook
     Connivingly my dreaming-book.
</pre>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0067">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      DOUBTFUL POEMS
    </h2>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0068">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      ALONE
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     From childhood’s hour I have not been
     As others were—I have not seen
     As others saw—I could not bring
     My passions from a common spring—
     From the same source I have not taken
     My sorrow—I could not awaken
     My heart to joy at the same tone—
     And all I lov’d—<i>I</i> lov’d alone—
     <i>Then</i>—in my childhood—in the dawn
     Of a most stormy life—was drawn
     From ev’ry depth of good and ill
     The mystery which binds me still—
     From the torrent, or the fountain—
     From the red cliff of the mountain—
     From the sun that ‘round me roll’d
     In its autumn tint of gold—
     From the lightning in the sky
     As it pass’d me flying by—
     From the thunder, and the storm—
     And the cloud that took the form
     (When the rest of Heaven was blue)
     Of a demon in my view—
</pre>
<p>
      {This poem is no longer considered doubtful as it was in 1903. Liberty has
      been taken to replace the book version with an earlier, perhaps more
      original manuscript version—Ed}
    </p>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0069">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      TO ISADORE
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
             I

     BENEATH the vine-clad eaves,
         Whose shadows fall before
         Thy lowly cottage door
     Under the lilac’s tremulous leaves—
     Within thy snowy claspe?d hand
         The purple flowers it bore..
     Last eve in dreams, I saw thee stand,
     Like queenly nymphs from Fairy-land—
     Enchantress of the flowery wand,
         Most beauteous Isadore!

              II

     And when I bade the dream
         Upon thy spirit flee,
         Thy violet eyes to me
     Upturned, did overflowing seem
     With the deep, untold delight
         Of Love’s serenity;
     Thy classic brow, like lilies white
     And pale as the Imperial Night
     Upon her throne, with stars bedight,
         Enthralled my soul to thee!

                 III

     Ah I ever I behold
         Thy dreamy, passionate eyes,
         Blue as the languid skies

     Hung with the sunset’s fringe of gold;
     Now strangely clear thine image grows,
         And olden memories
     Are startled from their long repose
     Like shadows on the silent snows
     When suddenly the night-wind blows
         Where quiet moonlight ties.

              IV

     Like music heard in dreams,
         Like strains of harps unknown,
         Of birds forever flown
     Audible as the voice of streams
     That murmur in some leafy dell,
         I hear thy gentlest tone,
     And Silence cometh with her spell
     Like that which on my tongue doth dwell,
     When tremulous in dreams I tell
         My love to thee alone!

              V

     In every valley heard,
         Floating from tree to tree,
         Less beautiful to, me,
     The music of the radiant bird,
     Than artless accents such as thine
         Whose echoes never flee!
     Ah! how for thy sweet voice I pine:—
     For uttered in thy tones benign
     (Enchantress!) this rude name of mine

         Doth seem a melody!
</pre>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0070">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      THE VILLAGE STREET
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     IN these rapid, restless shadows,
         Once I walked at eventide,
     When a gentle, silent maiden,
         Wal    ked in beauty at my side
     She alone there walked beside me
         All in beauty, like a bride.

     Pallidly the moon was shining
         On the dewy meadows nigh;
     On the silvery, silent rivers,
         On the mountains far and high
     On the ocean’s star-lit waters,
         Where the winds a-weary die.

     Slowly, silently we wandered
     From the open cottage door,
     Underneath the elm’s long branches
     To the pavement bending o’er;
     Underneath the mossy willow
     And the dying sycamore.

     With the myriad stars in beauty
     All bedight, the heavens were seen,
     Radiant hopes were bright around me,
     Like the light of stars serene;
     Like the mellow midnight splendor
     Of the Night’s irradiate queen.

     Audibly the elm-leaves whispered
         Peaceful, pleasant melodies,
     Like the distant murmured music
         Of unquiet, lovely seas:
     While the winds were hushed in slumber
         In the fragrant flowers and trees.

     Wondrous and unwonted beauty
         Still adorning all did seem,
     While I told my love in fables
         ‘Neath the willows by the stream;
     Would the heart have kept unspoken
         Love that was its rarest dream!

     Instantly away we wandered
         In the shadowy twilight tide,
     She, the silent, scornful maiden,
         Walking calmly at my side,
     With a step serene and stately,
         All in beauty, all in pride.

     Vacantly I walked beside her.
         On the earth mine eyes were cast;
     Swift and keen there came unto me
         Ritter memories of the past
     On me, like the rain in Autumn
         On the dead leaves, cold and fast.

     Underneath the elms we parted,
         By the lowly cottage door;
     One brief word alone was uttered
         Never on our lips before;
     And away I walked forlornly,
         Broken-hearted evermore.

     Slowly, silently I loitered,
         Homeward, in the night, alone;
     Sudden anguish bound my spirit,
         That my youth had never known;
     Wild unrest, like that which cometh
         When the Night’s first dream hath flown.

     Now, to me the elm-leaves whisper
         Mad, discordant melodies,
     And keen melodies like shadows
         Haunt the moaning willow trees,
     And the sycamores with laughter
         Mock me in the nightly breeze.

     Sad and pale the Autumn moonlight
         Through the sighing foliage streams;
     And each morning, midnight shadow,
         Shadow of my sorrow seems;
     Strive, 0 heart, forget thine idol!
         And, 0 soul, forget thy dreams!
</pre>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_4_0071">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      THE FOREST REVERIE
    </h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     ‘Tis said that when
     The hands of men
     Tamed this primeval wood,
     And hoary trees with groans of woe,
     Like warriors by an unknown foe,
     Were in their strength subdued,
     The virgin Earth Gave instant birth
     To springs that ne’er did flow
     That in the sun Did rivulets run,
     And all around rare flowers did blow
     The wild rose pale Perfumed the gale
     And the queenly lily adown the dale
     (Whom the sun and the dew
     And the winds did woo),
     With the gourd and the grape luxuriant grew.

     So when in tears
     The love of years
     Is wasted like the snow,
     And the fine fibrils of its life
     By the rude wrong of instant strife
     Are broken at a blow
     Within the heart
     Do springs upstart
     Of which it doth now know,
     And strange, sweet dreams,
     Like silent streams
     That from new fountains overflow,
     With the earlier tide
     Of rivers glide
     Deep in the heart whose hope has died—
     Quenching the fires its ashes hide,—
     Its ashes, whence will spring and grow
     Sweet flowers, ere long,
     The rare and radiant flowers of song!
</pre>
<p>
<a name="2151link2H_NOTE3">
<!--  H2 anchor --> </a>
</p>
<div style="height: 4em;">
<br/><br/><br/><br/>
</div>
<h2>
      NOTES
    </h2>
<p>
      Of the many verses from time to time ascribed to the pen of Edgar Poe, and
      not included among his known writings, the lines entitled “Alone”
      have the chief claim to our notice. <i>Fac-simile </i>copies of this piece
      had been in possession of the present editor some time previous to its
      publication in “Scribner’s Magazine” for September,
      1875; but as proofs of the authorship claimed for it were not forthcoming,
      he refrained from publishing it as requested. The desired proofs have not
      yet been adduced, and there is, at present, nothing but internal evidence
      to guide us. “Alone” is stated to have been written by Poe in
      the album of a Baltimore lady (Mrs. Balderstone?), on March 17th, 1829,
      and the facsimile given in “Scribner’s” is alleged to be
      of his handwriting. If the caligraphy be Poe’s, it is different in
      all essential respects from all the many specimens known to us, and
      strongly resembles that of the writer of the heading and dating of the
      manuscript, both of which the contributor of the poem acknowledges to have
      been recently added. The lines, however, if not by Poe, are the most
      successful imitation of his early mannerisms yet made public, and, in the
      opinion of one well qualified to speak, “are not unworthy on the
      whole of the parentage claimed for them.”
    </p>
<p>
      While Edgar Poe was editor of the “Broadway Journal,” some
      lines “To Isadore” appeared therein, and, like several of his
      known pieces, bore no signature. They were at once ascribed to Poe, and in
      order to satisfy questioners, an editorial paragraph subsequently appeared
      saying they were by “A. Ide, junior.” Two previous poems had
      appeared in the “Broadway journal” over the signature of
      “A. M. Ide,” and whoever wrote them was also the author of the
      lines “To Isadore.” In order, doubtless, to give a show of
      variety, Poe was then publishing some of his known works in his journal
      over <i>noms de plume, </i>and as no other writings whatever can be traced
      to any person bearing the name of “A. M. Ide,” it is not
      impossible that the poems now republished in this collection may be by the
      author of “The Raven.” Having been published without his usual
      elaborate revision, Poe may have wished to <i>hide </i>his hasty work
      under an assumed name. The three pieces are included in the present
      collection, so the reader can judge for himself what pretensions they
      possess to be by the author of “The Raven.”
    </p>
