<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Endnotes</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="backmatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="endnotes" epub:type="endnotes">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Endnotes</h2>
			<ol>
				<li id="note-1" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>These remarks were published by <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Willis in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.magazine">Home Journal</i>, on the Saturday following <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Poe’s death. <a href="the-death-of-edgar-allan-poe.xhtml#noteref-1" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-2" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Mercier, in “<span epub:type="se:name.publication.essay" xml:lang="fr">L’an deux mille quatre cents quarante</span>”, seriously maintains the doctrines of the Metempsychosis, and <abbr class="name">J.</abbr> D’Israeli says that “no system is so simple and so little repugnant to the understanding.” Colonel Ethan Allen, the “Green Mountain Boy,” is also said to have been a serious metempsychosist. <a href="metzengerstein.xhtml#noteref-2" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-3" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Montfleury. The author of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book" xml:lang="fr">Parnasse Réformé</i> makes him speak in Hades:</p>
					<blockquote xml:lang="fr">
						<p>“L’homme donc qui voudrait savoir ce dont je suis mort, qui’l ne demande pas si’l fût de fievre ou de podagre ou d’autre chose mais qui’l entende que ce fut de ‘L’Andromache.’ ”</p>
					</blockquote>
					<p>
						<a href="the-duc-de-lomelette.xhtml#noteref-3" epub:type="backlink">↩</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-4" epub:type="endnote">
					<blockquote xml:lang="la">
						<p>Tenera res in feminis fama pudicitiæ, et quasi flos pulcherrimus, citoad levem marcescit auram, levigue flatu corrupitur, maxime, <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr></p>
						<cite>—⁠Hieronymous ad Salviniam</cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p>
						<a href="loss-of-breath.xhtml#noteref-4" epub:type="backlink">↩</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-5" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><i xml:lang="el">φρενός</i>. <a href="bon-bon.xhtml#noteref-5" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-6" epub:type="endnote">
					<blockquote xml:lang="fr">
						<p>Ils ecrivaient sur la Philosophie (Cicero, Lucretius, Seneca) mais c’etait la Philosophie Grecque.</p>
						<cite>—⁠Condorcet</cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p>
						<a href="bon-bon.xhtml#noteref-6" epub:type="backlink">↩</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-7" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Quere-Aroue? <a href="bon-bon.xhtml#noteref-7" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-8" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The “<span epub:type="se:name.publication.short-story"><abbr>MS.</abbr> Found in a Bottle</span>,” was originally published in 1831, and it was not until many years afterwards that I became acquainted with the maps of Mercator, in which the ocean is represented as rushing, by four mouths, into the (northern) Polar Gulf, to be absorbed into the bowels of the earth; the Pole itself being represented by a black rock, towering to a prodigious height. <a href="ms-found-in-a-bottle.xhtml#noteref-8" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-9" epub:type="endnote">
					<blockquote>
						<p>For as Jove, during the winter season, gives twice seven days of warmth, men have called this clement and temperate time the nurse of the beautiful Halcyon.</p>
						<cite>—⁠Simonides</cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p>
						<a href="berenice.xhtml#noteref-9" epub:type="backlink">↩</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-10" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The zodiacal light is probably what the ancients called Trabes.</p>
					<blockquote xml:lang="la">
						<p>Emicant Trabes quos docos vocant.</p>
						<cite>—⁠Pliny, <abbr>lib.</abbr> 2, <abbr>p.</abbr> 26.</cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p>
						<a href="the-unparalleled-adventure-of-one-hans-pfaall.xhtml#noteref-10" epub:type="backlink">↩</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-11" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Since the original publication of Hans Pfaall, I find that <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Green, of Nassau-balloon notoriety, and other late aeronauts, deny the assertions of Humboldt, in this respect, and speak of a <em>decreasing</em> inconvenience⁠—precisely in accordance with the theory here urged. <a href="the-unparalleled-adventure-of-one-hans-pfaall.xhtml#noteref-11" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-12" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Hevelius writes that he has several times found, in skies perfectly clear, when even stars of the sixth and seventh magnitude were conspicuous, that, at the same altitude of the moon, at the same elongation from the earth, and with one and the same excellent telescope, the moon and its maculae did not appear equally lucid at all times. From the circumstances of the observation, it is evident that the cause of this phenomenon is not either in our air, in the tube, in the moon, or in the eye of the spectator, but must be looked for in something (an atmosphere?) existing about the moon.</p>
					<p>Cassini frequently observed Saturn, Jupiter, and the fixed stars, when approaching the moon to occultation, to have their circular figure changed into an oval one; and, in other occultations, he found no alteration of figure at all. Hence it might be supposed, that <em>at some times</em>, and not at others, there is a dense matter encompassing the moon wherein the rays of the stars are refracted. <a href="the-unparalleled-adventure-of-one-hans-pfaall.xhtml#noteref-12" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-13" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Strictly speaking, there is but little similarity between the above sketchy trifle and the celebrated “Moon-Story” of <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Locke; but as both have the character of <em>hoaxes</em> (although the one is in a tone of banter, the other of downright earnest), and as both hoaxes are on the same subject, the moon⁠—moreover, as both attempt to give plausibility by scientific detail⁠—the author of “<span epub:type="se:name.publication.short-story">Hans Pfaall</span>” thinks it necessary to say, in <em>self-defence</em>, that his own <i xml:lang="fr">jeu d’esprit</i> was published in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Southern Literary Messenger</i> about three weeks before the commencement of <abbr>Mr.</abbr> <abbr class="name">L.</abbr>’s in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">New York Sun</i>. Fancying a likeness which, perhaps, does not exist, some of the New York papers copied “<span epub:type="se:name.publication.short-story">Hans Pfaall</span>,” and collated it with the “Moon-Hoax,” by way of detecting the writer of the one in the writer of the other.</p>
					<p>As many more persons were actually gulled by the “Moon-Hoax” than would be willing to acknowledge the fact, it may here afford some little amusement to show why no one should have been deceived-to point out those particulars of the story which should have been sufficient to establish its real character. Indeed, however rich the imagination displayed in this ingenious fiction, it wanted much of the force which might have been given it by a more scrupulous attention to facts and to general analogy. That the public were misled, even for an instant, merely proves the gross ignorance which is so generally prevalent upon subjects of an astronomical nature.</p>
					<p>The moon’s distance from the earth is, in round numbers, 240,000 miles. If we desire to ascertain how near, apparently, a lens would bring the satellite (or any distant object), we, of course, have but to divide the distance by the magnifying or, more strictly, by the space-penetrating power of the glass. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> <abbr class="name">L.</abbr> makes his lens have a power of 42,000 times. By this divide 240,000 (the moon’s real distance), and we have five miles and five sevenths, as the apparent distance. No animal at all could be seen so far; much less the minute points particularized in the story. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> <abbr class="name">L.</abbr> speaks about Sir John Herschel’s perceiving flowers (the Papaver rheas, <abbr>etc.</abbr>), and even detecting the color and the shape of the eyes of small birds. Shortly before, too, he has himself observed that the lens would not render perceptible objects of less than eighteen inches in diameter; but even this, as I have said, is giving the glass by far too great power. It may be observed, in passing, that this prodigious glass is said to have been molded at the glasshouse of <abbr>Messrs.</abbr> Hartley and Grant, in Dumbarton; but <abbr>Messrs.</abbr> <abbr class="name">H.</abbr> and <abbr class="name">G.</abbr>’s establishment had ceased operations for many years previous to the publication of the hoax.</p>
					<p>On page 13, pamphlet edition, speaking of “a hairy veil” over the eyes of a species of bison, the author says: “It immediately occurred to the acute mind of <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Herschel that this was a providential contrivance to protect the eyes of the animal from the great extremes of light and darkness to which all the inhabitants of our side of the moon are periodically subjected.” But this cannot be thought a very “acute” observation of the Doctor’s. The inhabitants of our side of the moon have, evidently, no darkness at all, so there can be nothing of the “extremes” mentioned. In the absence of the sun they have a light from the earth equal to that of thirteen full unclouded moons.</p>
					<p>The topography throughout, even when professing to accord with Blunt’s Lunar Chart, is entirely at variance with that or any other lunar chart, and even grossly at variance with itself. The points of the compass, too, are in inextricable confusion; the writer appearing to be ignorant that, on a lunar map, these are not in accordance with terrestrial points; the east being to the left, <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr></p>
					<p>Deceived, perhaps, by the vague titles, Mare Nubium, Mare Tranquillitatis, Mare Faecunditatis, <abbr>etc.</abbr>, given to the dark spots by former astronomers, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> <abbr class="name">L.</abbr> has entered into details regarding oceans and other large bodies of water in the moon; whereas there is no astronomical point more positively ascertained than that no such bodies exist there. In examining the boundary between light and darkness (in the crescent or gibbous moon) where this boundary crosses any of the dark places, the line of division is found to be rough and jagged; but, were these dark places liquid, it would evidently be even.</p>
					<p>The description of the wings of the man-bat, on page 21, is but a literal copy of Peter Wilkins’ account of the wings of his flying islanders. This simple fact should have induced suspicion, at least, it might be thought.</p>
					<p>On page 23, we have the following: “What a prodigious influence must our thirteen times larger globe have exercised upon this satellite when an embryo in the womb of time, the passive subject of chemical affinity!” This is very fine; but it should be observed that no astronomer would have made such remark, especially to any journal of Science; for the earth, in the sense intended, is not only thirteen, but forty-nine times larger than the moon. A similar objection applies to the whole of the concluding pages, where, by way of introduction to some discoveries in Saturn, the philosophical correspondent enters into a minute schoolboy account of that planet⁠—this to the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.journal">Edinburgh Journal of Science</i>!</p>
					<p>But there is one point, in particular, which should have betrayed the fiction. Let us imagine the power actually possessed of seeing animals upon the moon’s surface⁠—what would first arrest the attention of an observer from the earth? Certainly neither their shape, size, nor any other such peculiarity, so soon as their remarkable <em>situation</em>. They would appear to be walking, with heels up and head down, in the manner of flies on a ceiling. The <em>real</em> observer would have uttered an instant ejaculation of surprise (however prepared by previous knowledge) at the singularity of their position; the <em>fictitious</em> observer has not even mentioned the subject, but speaks of seeing the entire bodies of such creatures, when it is demonstrable that he could have seen only the diameter of their heads!</p>
					<p>It might as well be remarked, in conclusion, that the size, and particularly the powers of the man-bats (for example, their ability to fly in so rare an atmosphere⁠—if, indeed, the moon have any), with most of the other fancies in regard to animal and vegetable existence, are at variance, generally, with all analogical reasoning on these themes; and that analogy here will often amount to conclusive demonstration. It is, perhaps, scarcely necessary to add, that all the suggestions attributed to Brewster and Herschel, in the beginning of the article, about “a transfusion of artificial light through the focal object of vision,” <abbr>etc.</abbr>, <abbr>etc.</abbr>, belong to that species of figurative writing which comes, most properly, under the denomination of rigmarole.</p>
					<p>There is a real and very definite limit to optical discovery among the stars⁠—a limit whose nature need only be stated to be understood. If, indeed, the casting of large lenses were all that is required, man’s ingenuity would ultimately prove equal to the task, and we might have them of any size demanded. But, unhappily, in proportion to the increase of size in the lens, and consequently of space-penetrating power, is the diminution of light from the object, by diffusion of its rays. And for this evil there is no remedy within human ability; for an object is seen by means of that light alone which proceeds from itself, whether direct or reflected. Thus the only “<em>artificial</em>” light which could avail <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Locke, would be some artificial light which he should be able to throw⁠—not upon the “focal object of vision,” but upon the real object to be viewed⁠—to wit: <em>upon the moon</em>. It has been easily calculated that, when the light proceeding from a star becomes so diffused as to be as weak as the natural light proceeding from the whole of the stars, in a clear and moonless night, then the star is no longer visible for any practical purpose.</p>
					<p>The Earl of Ross’s telescope, lately constructed in England, has a <i xml:lang="la">speculum</i> with a reflecting surface of 4,071 square inches; the Herschel telescope having one of only 1,811. The metal of the Earl of Ross’s is 6 feet diameter; it is 5½ inches thick at the edges, and 5 at the centre. The weight is 3 tons. The focal length is 50 feet.</p>
					<p>I have lately read a singular and somewhat ingenious little book, whose title-page runs thus: “<i xml:lang="fr">L’Homme dans la lvne ou le Voyage Chimerique fait au Monde de la Lvne, nouellement decouvert par Dominique Gonzales, Aduanturier Espagnol, autremét dit le Courier volant. Mis en notre langve par <abbr>J. B. D. A.</abbr> Paris, chez François Piot, pres la Fontaine de Saint Benoist. Et chez <abbr class="name">J.</abbr> Goignard, au premier pilier de la grand’salle du Palais, proche les Consultations, <span epub:type="z3998:roman">MDCXLVII</span>.</i>” <abbr>Pp.</abbr> 76.</p>
					<p>The writer professes to have translated his work from the English of one <abbr>Mr.</abbr> D’Avisson (Davidson?) although there is a terrible ambiguity in the statement. “<i xml:lang="fr">J’en ai eu</i>,” says he “<i xml:lang="fr">l’original de Monsieur D’Avisson, medecin des mieux versez qui soient aujourd’huy dans la cònoissance des Belles Lettres, et sur tout de la Philosophic Naturelle. Je lui ai cette obligation entre les autres, de m’auoir non seulement mis en main ce Livre en anglois, mais encore le Manuscrit du Sieur Thomas D’Anan, gentilhomme Eccossois, recommandable pour sa vertu, sur la version duquel j’advoue que j’ay tiré le plan de la mienne.</i>”</p>
					<p>After some irrelevant adventures, much in the manner of Gil Blas, and which occupy the first thirty pages, the author relates that, being ill during a sea voyage, the crew abandoned him, together with a negro servant, on the island of <abbr>St.</abbr> Helena. To increase the chances of obtaining food, the two separate, and live as far apart as possible. This brings about a training of birds, to serve the purpose of carrier-pigeons between them. By and by these are taught to carry parcels of some weight⁠—and this weight is gradually increased. At length the idea is entertained of uniting the force of a great number of the birds, with a view to raising the author himself. A machine is contrived for the purpose, and we have a minute description of it, which is materially helped out by a steel engraving. Here we perceive the Signor Gonzales, with point ruffles and a huge periwig, seated astride something which resembles very closely a broomstick, and borne aloft by a multitude of wild swans (<i xml:lang="es">ganzas</i>) who had strings reaching from their tails to the machine.</p>
					<p>The main event detailed in the Signor’s narrative depends upon a very important fact, of which the reader is kept in ignorance until near the end of the book. The <i xml:lang="es">ganzas</i>, with whom he had become so familiar, were not really denizens of <abbr>St.</abbr> Helena, but of the moon. Thence it had been their custom, time out of mind, to migrate annually to some portion of the earth. In proper season, of course, they would return home; and the author, happening, one day, to require their services for a short voyage, is unexpectedly carried straight tip, and in a very brief period arrives at the satellite. Here he finds, among other odd things, that the people enjoy extreme happiness; that they have no <em>law</em>; that they die without pain; that they are from ten to thirty feet in height; that they live five thousand years; that they have an emperor called Irdonozur; and that they can jump sixty feet high, when, being out of the gravitating influence, they fly about with fans.</p>
					<p>I cannot forbear giving a specimen of the general <em>philosophy</em> of the volume.</p>
					<blockquote>
						<p>“I must not forget here, that the stars appeared only on that side of the globe turned toward the moon, and that the closer they were to it the larger they seemed. I have also me and the earth. As to the stars, <em>since there was no night where I was, they always had the same appearance; not brilliant, as usual, but pale, and very nearly like the moon of a morning</em>. But few of them were visible, and these ten times larger (as well as I could judge) than they seem to the inhabitants of the earth. The moon, which wanted two days of being full, was of a terrible bigness.</p>
						<p>“I must not forget here, that the stars appeared only on that side of the globe turned toward the moon, and that the closer they were to it the larger they seemed. I have also to inform you that, whether it was calm weather or stormy, I found myself <em>always immediately between the moon and the earth</em>. I was convinced of this for two reasons-because my birds always flew in a straight line; and because whenever we attempted to rest, <em>we were carried insensibly around the globe of the earth</em>. For I admit the opinion of Copernicus, who maintains that it never ceases to revolve <em>from the east to the west</em>, not upon the poles of the Equinoctial, commonly called the poles of the world, but upon those of the Zodiac, a question of which I propose to speak more at length hereafter, when I shall have leisure to refresh my memory in regard to the astrology which I learned at Salamanca when young, and have since forgotten.”</p>
					</blockquote>
					<p>Notwithstanding the blunders italicized, the book is not without some claim to attention, as affording a naive specimen of the current astronomical notions of the time. One of these assumed, that the “gravitating power” extended but a short distance from the earth’s surface, and, accordingly, we find our voyager “carried insensibly around the globe,” <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr></p>
					<p>There have been other “voyages to the moon,” but none of higher merit than the one just mentioned. That of Bergerac is utterly meaningless. In the third volume of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.magazine">American Quarterly Review</i> will be found quite an elaborate criticism upon a certain “journey” of the kind in question⁠—a criticism in which it is difficult to say whether the critic most exposes the stupidity of the book, or his own absurd ignorance of astronomy. I forget the title of the work; but the <em>means</em> of the voyage are more deplorably ill conceived than are even the <i xml:lang="es">ganzas</i> of our friend the Signor Gonzales. The adventurer, in digging the earth, happens to discover a peculiar metal for which the moon has a strong attraction, and straightway constructs of it a box, which, when cast loose from its terrestrial fastenings, flies with him, forthwith, to the satellite. The “Flight of Thomas O’Rourke,” is a <i xml:lang="fr">jeu d’esprit</i> not altogether contemptible, and has been translated into German. Thomas, the hero, was, in fact, the gamekeeper of an Irish peer, whose eccentricities gave rise to the tale. The “flight” is made on an eagle’s back, from Hungry Hill, a lofty mountain at the end of Bantry Bay.</p>
					<p>In these various <em>brochures</em> the aim is always satirical; the theme being a description of Lunarian customs as compared with ours. In none is there any effort at <em>plausibility</em> in the details of the voyage itself. The writers seem, in each instance, to be utterly uninformed in respect to astronomy. In “<span epub:type="se:name.publication.short-story">Hans Pfaall</span>” the design is original, inasmuch as regards an attempt at <em>verisimilitude</em>, in the application of scientific principles (so far as the whimsical nature of the subject would permit), to the actual passage between the earth and the moon.</p>
					<p>
						<a href="the-unparalleled-adventure-of-one-hans-pfaall.xhtml#noteref-13" epub:type="backlink">↩</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-14" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Flavius Vospicus says, that the hymn here introduced was sung by the rabble upon the occasion of Aurelian, in the Sarmatic war, having slain, with his own hand, nine hundred and fifty of the enemy. <a href="four-beasts-in-one.xhtml#noteref-14" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-15" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Watson, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Percival, Spallanzani, and especially the Bishop of Landaff.⁠—See <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Chemical Essays</i>, vol. <span epub:type="z3998:roman">v</span>. <a href="the-fall-of-the-house-of-usher.xhtml#noteref-15" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-16" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book" xml:lang="la">Hortulus Animæ cum Orantiunculis Aliquibus Superadditis</i> of Grünninger. <a href="the-man-of-the-crowd.xhtml#noteref-16" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-17" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Rousseau⁠—<i epub:type="se:name.publication.book" xml:lang="fr">Nouvelle Heloise</i>. <a href="the-murders-in-the-rue-morgue.xhtml#noteref-17" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-18" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>See Archimedes, <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book" xml:lang="la">De Incidentibus in Fluido</i>.⁠—<abbr>lib.</abbr> 2. <a href="a-descent-into-the-maelstrom.xhtml#noteref-18" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-19" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Moraux is here derived from <i xml:lang="fr">mœurs</i>, and its meaning is “fashionable” or more strictly “of manners.” <a href="the-island-of-the-fay.xhtml#noteref-19" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-20" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Speaking of the tides, Pomponius Mela, in his treatise “<span epub:type="se:name.publication.essay" xml:lang="la">De Sitû Orbis</span>”, says “either the world is a great animal, or” <abbr>etc.</abbr> <a href="the-island-of-the-fay.xhtml#noteref-20" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-21" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Balzac⁠—in substance⁠—I do not remember the words. <a href="the-island-of-the-fay.xhtml#noteref-21" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-22" epub:type="endnote">
					<blockquote xml:lang="la">
						<p>Florem putares nare per liquidum æthera.</p>
						<cite>—⁠<abbr class="name">P.</abbr> Commire</cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p>
						<a href="the-island-of-the-fay.xhtml#noteref-22" epub:type="backlink">↩</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-23" epub:type="endnote">
					<blockquote>
						<p>“It will be hard to discover a better [method of education] than that which the experience of so many ages has already discovered; and this may be summed up as consisting in gymnastics for the body, and <em>music</em> for the soul.”</p>
						<cite>—⁠<abbr>Repub.</abbr> <abbr>lib.</abbr> 2</cite>
					</blockquote>
					<blockquote>
						<p>“For this reason is a musical education most essential; since it causes Rhythm and Harmony to penetrate most intimately into the soul, taking the strongest hold upon it, filling it with <em>beauty</em> and making the man <em>beautifully-minded</em>.</p>
						<hr/>
						<p>He will praise and admire <em>the beautiful</em>; will receive it with joy into his soul, will feed upon it, and <em>assimilate his own condition with it</em>.</p>
						<cite>—⁠<abbr>Repub.</abbr> <abbr>lib.</abbr> 3</cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p>Music <i xml:lang="el">μουσικη</i> had, however, among the Athenians, a far more comprehensive signification than with us. It included not only the harmonics of time and of tune, but the poetic diction, sentiment and creation each in its widest sense. The study of <em>music</em> was with them, in fact, the general cultivation of the taste of that which recognizes the beautiful⁠—in contradistinction from reason, which deals only with the true. <a href="the-colloquy-of-monos-and-una.xhtml#noteref-23" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-24" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>“History,” from <i xml:lang="el">ίστορειν</i>, to contemplate. <a href="the-colloquy-of-monos-and-una.xhtml#noteref-24" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-25" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The word “purification” seems here to be used with reference to its root in the Greek <i xml:lang="el">πυρ</i>, fire. <a href="the-colloquy-of-monos-and-una.xhtml#noteref-25" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-26" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>An incident similar in outline to the one here imagined occurred, not very long ago, in England. The name of the fortunate heir (who still lives) is Thelluson. I first saw an account of this matter in the “Tour” of Prince Puckler Muskau. He makes the sum received ninety millions of pounds, and observes, with much force, that “in the contemplation of so vast a sum, and to the services to which it might be applied, there is something even of the sublime.” To suit the views of this article, I have followed the Prince’s statement⁠—a grossly exaggerated one, no doubt. <a href="the-landscape-garden.xhtml#noteref-26" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-27" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Upon the original publication of “<span epub:type="se:name.publication.short-story">Marie Rogêt</span>,” the footnotes now appended were considered unnecessary; but the lapse of several years since the tragedy upon which the tale is based, renders it expedient to give them, and also to say a few words in explanation of the general design. A young girl, Mary Cecilia Rogers, was murdered in the vicinity of New York; and, although her death occasioned an intense and long-enduring excitement, the mystery attending it had remained unsolved at the period when the present paper was written and published (November, 1842). Herein, under pretence of relating the fate of a Parisian grisette, the author has followed in minute detail, the essential, while merely paralleling the inessential facts of the real murder of Mary Rogers. Thus all argument founded upon the fiction is applicable to the truth: and the investigation of the truth was the object.</p>
					<p>“<span epub:type="se:name.publication.short-story">The Mystery of Marie Rogêt</span>” was composed at a distance from the scene of the atrocity, and with no other means of investigation than the newspapers afforded. Thus much escaped the writer of which he could have availed himself had he been upon the spot, and visited the localities. It may not be improper to record, nevertheless, that the confessions of <em>two</em> persons (one of them the Madame Deluc of the narrative), made, at different periods, long subsequent to the publication, confirmed, in full, not only the general conclusion, but absolutely <em>all</em> the chief hypothetical details by which that conclusion was attained. <a href="the-mystery-of-marie-roget.xhtml#noteref-27" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-28" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The nom de plume of Von Hardenburg. <a href="the-mystery-of-marie-roget.xhtml#noteref-28" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-29" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Nassau Street. <a href="the-mystery-of-marie-roget.xhtml#noteref-29" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-30" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Anderson. <a href="the-mystery-of-marie-roget.xhtml#noteref-30" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-31" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The Hudson. <a href="the-mystery-of-marie-roget.xhtml#noteref-31" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-32" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Weehawken. <a href="the-mystery-of-marie-roget.xhtml#noteref-32" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-33" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Payne. <a href="the-mystery-of-marie-roget.xhtml#noteref-33" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-34" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Crommelin. <a href="the-mystery-of-marie-roget.xhtml#noteref-34" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-35" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The New York <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Mercury</i>. <a href="the-mystery-of-marie-roget.xhtml#noteref-35" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-36" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The New York <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Brother Jonathan</i>, edited by <abbr class="name">H.</abbr> Hastings Weld, <abbr class="eoc">Esq.</abbr> <a href="the-mystery-of-marie-roget.xhtml#noteref-36" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-37" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>New York <i epub:type="se:name.publication.journal">Journal of Commerce</i>. <a href="the-mystery-of-marie-roget.xhtml#noteref-37" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-38" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Philadelphia <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Saturday Evening Post</i>, edited by <abbr class="name">C. I.</abbr> Peterson, <abbr class="eoc">Esq.</abbr> <a href="the-mystery-of-marie-roget.xhtml#noteref-38" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-39" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Adam <a href="the-mystery-of-marie-roget.xhtml#noteref-39" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-40" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>See “<span epub:type="se:name.publication.short-story">Murders in the Rue Morgue</span>.” <a href="the-mystery-of-marie-roget.xhtml#noteref-40" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-41" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The New York <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Commercial Advertiser</i>, edited by <abbr>Col.</abbr> Stone. <a href="the-mystery-of-marie-roget.xhtml#noteref-41" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-42" epub:type="endnote">
					<blockquote>
						<p>“A theory based on the qualities of an object, will prevent its being unfolded according to its objects; and he who arranges topics in reference to their causes, will cease to value them according to their results. Thus the jurisprudence of every nation will show that, when law becomes a science and a system, it ceases to be justice. The errors into which a blind devotion to <em>principles</em> of classification has led the common law, will be seen by observing how often the legislature has been obliged to come forward to restore the equity its scheme had lost.”</p>
						<cite>—⁠Landor</cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p>
						<a href="the-mystery-of-marie-roget.xhtml#noteref-42" epub:type="backlink">↩</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-43" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>New York <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Express</i>. <a href="the-mystery-of-marie-roget.xhtml#noteref-43" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-44" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>New York <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Herald</i>. <a href="the-mystery-of-marie-roget.xhtml#noteref-44" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-45" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>New York <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Courier and Inquirer</i>. <a href="the-mystery-of-marie-roget.xhtml#noteref-45" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-46" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Mennais was one of the parties originally suspected and arrested, but discharged through total lack of evidence. <a href="the-mystery-of-marie-roget.xhtml#noteref-46" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-47" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>New York <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Courier and Inquirer</i>. <a href="the-mystery-of-marie-roget.xhtml#noteref-47" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-48" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>New York <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Evening Post</i>. <a href="the-mystery-of-marie-roget.xhtml#noteref-48" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-49" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>New York <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Standard</i>. <a href="the-mystery-of-marie-roget.xhtml#noteref-49" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-50" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Of the Magazine in which the article was originally published. <a href="the-mystery-of-marie-roget.xhtml#noteref-50" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-51" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The coralites. <a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-51" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-52" epub:type="endnote">
					<blockquote>
						<blockquote>
							<p>“One of the most remarkable natural curiosities in Texas is a petrified forest, near the head of Pasigno river. It consists of several hundred trees, in an erect position, all turned to stone. Some trees, now growing, are partly petrified. This is a startling fact for natural philosophers, and must cause them to modify the existing theory of petrification.</p>
							<cite>—⁠Kennedy</cite>
						</blockquote>
						<p>This account, at first discredited, has since been corroborated by the discovery of a completely petrified forest, near the head waters of the Cheyenne, or Chienne river, which has its source in the Black Hills of the rocky chain.</p>
						<p>There is scarcely, perhaps, a spectacle on the surface of the globe more remarkable, either in a geological or picturesque point of view than that presented by the petrified forest, near Cairo. The traveller, having passed the tombs of the caliphs, just beyond the gates of the city, proceeds to the southward, nearly at right angles to the road across the desert to Suez, and after having travelled some ten miles up a low barren valley, covered with sand, gravel, and sea shells, fresh as if the tide had retired but yesterday, crosses a low range of sandhills, which has for some distance run parallel to his path. The scene now presented to him is beyond conception singular and desolate. A mass of fragments of trees, all converted into stone, and when struck by his horse’s hoof ringing like cast iron, is seen to extend itself for miles and miles around him, in the form of a decayed and prostrate forest. The wood is of a dark brown hue, but retains its form in perfection, the pieces being from one to fifteen feet in length, and from half a foot to three feet in thickness, strewed so closely together, as far as the eye can reach, that an Egyptian donkey can scarcely thread its way through amongst them, and so natural that, were it in Scotland or Ireland, it might pass without remark for some enormous drained bog, on which the exhumed trees lay rotting in the sun. The roots and rudiments of the branches are, in many cases, nearly perfect, and in some the wormholes eaten under the bark are readily recognizable. The most delicate of the sap vessels, and all the finer portions of the centre of the wood, are perfectly entire, and bear to be examined with the strongest magnifiers. The whole are so thoroughly silicified as to scratch glass and are capable of receiving the highest polish.</p>
						<cite>—⁠<i epub:type="se:name.publication.magazine">Asiatic Magazine</i></cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p>
						<a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-52" epub:type="backlink">↩</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-53" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The Mammoth Cave of Kentucky. <a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-53" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-54" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>In Iceland, 1783. <a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-54" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-55" epub:type="endnote">
					<blockquote>
						<p>“During the eruption of Hecla, in 1766, clouds of this kind produced such a degree of darkness that, at Glaumba, which is more than fifty leagues from the mountain, people could only find their way by groping. During the eruption of Vesuvius, in 1794, at Caserta, four leagues distant, people could only walk by the light of torches. On the first of May, 1812, a cloud of volcanic ashes and sand, coming from a volcano in the island of <abbr>St.</abbr> Vincent, covered the whole of Barbadoes, spreading over it so intense a darkness that, at midday, in the open air, one could not perceive the trees or other objects near him, or even a white handkerchief placed at the distance of six inches from the eye.”</p>
						<cite>—⁠Murray, <abbr>p.</abbr> 215, <abbr>Phil. edit.</abbr></cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p>
						<a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-55" epub:type="backlink">↩</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-56" epub:type="endnote">
					<blockquote>
						<p>“In the year 1790, in the Caraccas during an earthquake a portion of the granite soil sank and left a lake eight hundred yards in diameter, and from eighty to a hundred feet deep. It was a part of the forest of Aripao which sank, and the trees remained green for several months under the water.”</p>
						<cite>—⁠Murray, <abbr>p.</abbr> 221</cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p>
						<a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-56" epub:type="backlink">↩</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-57" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The hardest steel ever manufactured may, under the action of a blowpipe, be reduced to an impalpable powder, which will float readily in the atmospheric air. <a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-57" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-58" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The region of the Niger. See Simmona’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.magazine">Colonial Magazine</i>. <a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-58" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-59" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The Myrmeleon⁠—lion-ant. The term “monster” is equally applicable to small abnormal things and to great, while such epithets as “vast” are merely comparative. The cavern of the myrmeleon is vast in comparison with the hole of the common red ant. A grain of silex is also a “rock.” <a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-59" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-60" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The <i epub:type="z3998:taxonomy">Epidendron</i>, <i epub:type="z3998:taxonomy">Flos Aeris,</i> of the family of the <i epub:type="z3998:taxonomy">Orchideae</i>, grows with merely the surface of its roots attached to a tree or other object, from which it derives no nutriment⁠—subsisting altogether upon air. <a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-60" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-61" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The <em>Parasites</em>, such as the wonderful <i epub:type="z3998:taxonomy">Rafflesia Arnaldii</i>. <a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-61" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-62" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Schouw advocates a class of plants that grow upon living animals⁠—the <i epub:type="z3998:taxonomy">Plantae Epizoae</i>. Of this class are the <i epub:type="z3998:taxonomy">Fuci</i> and <i epub:type="z3998:taxonomy">Algae</i>.</p>
					<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> <abbr class="name">J. B.</abbr> Williams, of Salem, <abbr>Mass.</abbr>, presented the “National Institute” with an insect from New Zealand, with the following description: “ ‘The Hotte’, a decided caterpillar, or worm, is found gnawing at the root of the <i epub:type="z3998:taxonomy">Rota</i> tree, with a plant growing out of its head. This most peculiar and extraordinary insect travels up both the <i epub:type="z3998:taxonomy">Rota</i> and <i epub:type="z3998:taxonomy">Ferriri</i> trees, and entering into the top, eats its way, perforating the trunk of the trees until it reaches the root, and dies, or remains dormant, and the plant propagates out of its head; the body remains perfect and entire, of a harder substance than when alive. From this insect the natives make a coloring for tattooing. <a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-62" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-63" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>In mines and natural caves we find a species of cryptogamous fungus that emits an intense phosphorescence. <a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-63" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-64" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The orchis, scabius and valisneria. <a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-64" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-65" epub:type="endnote">
					<blockquote>
						<p>“The corolla of this flower (<i epub:type="z3998:taxonomy">Aristolochia Clematitis</i>), which is tubular, but terminating upwards in a ligulate limb, is inflated into a globular figure at the base. The tubular part is internally beset with stiff hairs, pointing downwards. The globular part contains the pistil, which consists merely of a germen and stigma, together with the surrounding stamens. But the stamens, being shorter than the germen, cannot discharge the pollen so as to throw it upon the stigma, as the flower stands always upright till after impregnation. And hence, without some additional and peculiar aid, the pollen must necessarily fan down to the bottom of the flower. Now, the aid that nature has furnished in this case, is that of the <i epub:type="z3998:taxonomy">Tiputa Pennicornis</i>, a small insect, which entering the tube of the corrolla in quest of honey, descends to the bottom, and rummages about till it becomes quite covered with pollen; but not being able to force its way out again, owing to the downward position of the hairs, which converge to a point like the wires of a mousetrap, and being somewhat impatient of its confinement it brushes backwards and forwards, trying every corner, till, after repeatedly traversing the stigma, it covers it with pollen sufficient for its impregnation, in consequence of which the flower soon begins to droop, and the hairs to shrink to the sides of the tube, effecting an easy passage for the escape of the insect.”</p>
						<cite>—⁠<abbr>Rev.</abbr> <abbr class="name">P.</abbr> Keith, <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">System of Physiological Botany</i></cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p>
						<a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-65" epub:type="backlink">↩</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-66" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The bees⁠—ever since bees were⁠—have been constructing their cells with just such sides, in just such number, and at just such inclinations, as it has been demonstrated (in a problem involving the profoundest mathematical principles) are the very sides, in the very number, and at the very angles, which will afford the creatures the most room that is compatible with the greatest stability of structure.</p>
					<p>During the latter part of the last century, the question arose among mathematicians⁠—“to determine the best form that can be given to the sails of a windmill, according to their varying distances from the revolving vanes, and likewise from the centres of the revolution.” This is an excessively complex problem, for it is, in other words, to find the best possible position at an infinity of varied distances and at an infinity of points on the arm. There were a thousand futile attempts to answer the query on the part of the most illustrious mathematicians, and when at length, an undeniable solution was discovered, men found that the wings of a bird had given it with absolute precision ever since the first bird had traversed the air. <a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-66" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-67" epub:type="endnote">
					<blockquote>
						<p>He observed a flock of pigeons passing betwixt Frankfort and the Indian territory, one mile at least in breadth; it took up four hours in passing, which, at the rate of one mile per minute, gives a length of 240 miles; and, supposing three pigeons to each square yard, gives 2,230,272,000 Pigeons.</p>
						<cite>—⁠<i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Travels in Canada and the United States</i>, by <abbr>Lieut.</abbr> <abbr class="name">F.</abbr> Hall</cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p>
						<a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-67" epub:type="backlink">↩</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-68" epub:type="endnote">
					<blockquote>
						<p>The earth is upheld by a cow of a blue color, having horns four hundred in number.</p>
						<cite>—⁠Sale’s Koran</cite>
					</blockquote>
					<p>
						<a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-68" epub:type="backlink">↩</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-69" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>“The <i epub:type="z3998:taxonomy">Entozoa</i>, or intestinal worms, have repeatedly been observed in the muscles, and in the cerebral substance of men.”⁠—See <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Wyatt’s Physiology</i>, <abbr>p.</abbr> 143. <a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-69" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-70" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>On the Great Western Railway, between London and Exeter, a speed of 71 miles per hour has been attained. A train weighing 90 tons was whirled from Paddington to Didcot (53 miles) in 51 minutes. <a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-70" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-71" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Eccalobeion</i>. <a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-71" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-72" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Maelzel’s Automaton Chess-player. <a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-72" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-73" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Babbage’s Calculating Machine. <a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-73" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-74" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Chabert, and since him, a hundred others. <a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-74" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-75" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The Electrotype. <a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-75" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-76" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Wollaston made of platinum for the field of views in a telescope a wire one eighteen-thousandth part of an inch in thickness. It could be seen only by means of the microscope. <a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-76" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-77" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Newton demonstrated that the retina beneath the influence of the violet ray of the spectrum, vibrated 900,000,000 of times in a second. <a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-77" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-78" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Voltaic pile. <a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-78" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-79" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The Electro Telegraph Printing Apparatus. <a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-79" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-80" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The Electro Telegraph transmits intelligence instantaneously⁠—at least at so far as regards any distance upon the earth. <a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-80" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-81" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Common experiments in Natural Philosophy. If two red rays from two luminous points be admitted into a dark chamber so as to fall on a white surface, and differ in their length by 0.0000258 of an inch, their intensity is doubled. So also if the difference in length be any whole-number multiple of that fraction. A multiple by 2¼, 3¼, <abbr>etc.</abbr>, gives an intensity equal to one ray only; but a multiple by 2½, 3½, <abbr>etc.</abbr>, gives the result of total darkness. In violet rays similar effects arise when the difference in length is 0.000157 of an inch; and with all other rays the results are the same⁠—the difference varying with a uniform increase from the violet to the red.</p>
					<p>“Analogous experiments in respect to sound produce analogous results.” <a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-81" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-82" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Place a platina crucible over a spirit lamp, and keep it a red heat; pour in some sulphuric acid, which, though the most volatile of bodies at a common temperature, will be found to become completely fixed in a hot crucible, and not a drop evaporates⁠—being surrounded by an atmosphere of its own, it does not, in fact, touch the sides. A few drops of water are now introduced, when the acid, immediately coming in contact with the heated sides of the crucible, flies off in sulphurous acid vapor, and so rapid is its progress, that the caloric of the water passes off with it, which falls a lump of ice to the bottom; by taking advantage of the moment before it is allowed to remelt, it may be turned out a lump of ice from a red-hot vessel. <a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-82" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-83" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The Daguerreotype. <a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-83" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-84" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Although light travels 167,000 miles in a second, the distance of 61 Cygni (the only star whose distance is ascertained) is so inconceivably great, that its rays would require more than ten years to reach the earth. For stars beyond this, 20⁠—or even 1000 years⁠—would be a moderate estimate. Thus, if they had been annihilated 20, or 1000 years ago, we might still see them today by the light which started from their surfaces 20 or 1000 years in the past time. That many which we see daily are really extinct, is not impossible⁠—not even improbable.</p>
					<p>The elder Herschel maintains that the light of the faintest nebulae seen through his great telescope must have taken 3,000,000 years in reaching the earth. Some, made visible by Lord Ross’ instrument, must, then, have required at least 20,000,000. <a href="the-thousand-and-second-tale-of-scheherazade.xhtml#noteref-84" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-85" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>An incident, similar in outline to the one here imagined, occurred, not very long ago, in England. The name of the fortunate heir was Thelluson. I first saw an account of this matter in the “Tour” of Prince Puckler Muskau, who makes the sum inherited <em>ninety millions of pounds</em>, and justly observes that “in the contemplation of so vast a sum, and of the services to which it might be applied, there is something even of the sublime.” To suit the views of this article I have followed the Prince’s statement, although a grossly exaggerated one. The germ, and in fact, the commencement of the present paper was published many years ago⁠—previous to the issue of the first number of Sue’s admirable <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book" xml:lang="fr">Juif Errant</i>, which may possibly have been suggested to him by Muskau’s account. <a href="the-domain-of-arnheim.xhtml#noteref-85" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
