<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Lionizing</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="lionizing" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lionizing</h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     ———— all people went
     Upon their ten toes in wild wonderment.

           —<i>Bishop Hall’s Satires</i>.
</pre>
<p>
      I am—that is to say I was—a great man; but I am neither the
      author of Junius nor the man in the mask; for my name, I believe, is
      Robert Jones, and I was born somewhere in the city of Fum-Fudge.
    </p>
<p>
      The first action of my life was the taking hold of my nose with both
      hands. My mother saw this and called me a genius: my father wept for joy
      and presented me with a treatise on Nosology. This I mastered before I was
      breeched.
    </p>
<p>
      I now began to feel my way in the science, and soon came to understand
      that, provided a man had a nose sufficiently conspicuous he might, by
      merely following it, arrive at a Lionship. But my attention was not
      confined to theories alone. Every morning I gave my proboscis a couple of
      pulls and swallowed a half dozen of drams.
    </p>
<p>
      When I came of age my father asked me, one day, If I would step with him
      into his study.
    </p>
<p>
      “My son,” said he, when we were seated, “what is the
      chief end of your existence?”
    </p>
<p>
      “My father,” I answered, “it is the study of Nosology.”
    </p>
<p>
      “And what, Robert,” he inquired, “is Nosology?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Sir,” I said, “it is the Science of Noses.”
    </p>
<p>
      “And can you tell me,” he demanded, “what is the meaning
      of a nose?”
    </p>
<p>
      “A nose, my father;” I replied, greatly softened, “has
      been variously defined by about a thousand different authors.” [Here
      I pulled out my watch.] “It is now noon or thereabouts—we
      shall have time enough to get through with them all before midnight. To
      commence then:—The nose, according to Bartholinus, is that
      protuberance—that bump—that excrescence—that—”
    </p>
<p>
      “Will do, Robert,” interrupted the good old gentleman. “I
      am thunderstruck at the extent of your information—I am positively—upon
      my soul.” [Here he closed his eyes and placed his hand upon his
      heart.] “Come here!” [Here he took me by the arm.] “Your
      education may now be considered as finished—it is high time you
      should scuffle for yourself—and you cannot do a better thing than
      merely follow your nose—so—so—so—” [Here he
      kicked me down stairs and out of the door]—“so get out of my
      house, and God bless you!”
    </p>
<p>
      As I felt within me the divine afflatus, I considered this accident rather
      fortunate than otherwise. I resolved to be guided by the paternal advice.
      I determined to follow my nose. I gave it a pull or two upon the spot, and
      wrote a pamphlet on Nosology forthwith.
    </p>
<p>
      All Fum-Fudge was in an uproar.
    </p>
<p>
      “Wonderful genius!” said the Quarterly.
    </p>
<p>
      “Superb physiologist!” said the Westminster.
    </p>
<p>
      “Clever fellow!” said the Foreign.
    </p>
<p>
      “Fine writer!” said the Edinburgh.
    </p>
<p>
      “Profound thinker!” said the Dublin.
    </p>
<p>
      “Great man!” said Bentley.
    </p>
<p>
      “Divine soul!” said Fraser.
    </p>
<p>
      “One of us!” said Blackwood.
    </p>
<p>
      “Who can he be?” said Mrs. Bas-Bleu.
    </p>
<p>
      “What can he be?” said big Miss Bas-Bleu.
    </p>
<p>
      “Where can he be?” said little Miss Bas-Bleu.—But I paid
      these people no attention whatever—I just stepped into the shop of
      an artist.
    </p>
<p>
      The Duchess of Bless-my-Soul was sitting for her portrait; the Marquis of
      So-and-So was holding the Duchess’ poodle; the Earl of This-and-That
      was flirting with her salts; and his Royal Highness of Touch-me-Not was
      leaning upon the back of her chair.
    </p>
<p>
      I approached the artist and turned up my nose.
    </p>
<p>
      “Oh, beautiful!” sighed her Grace.
    </p>
<p>
      “Oh my!” lisped the Marquis.
    </p>
<p>
      “Oh, shocking!” groaned the Earl.
    </p>
<p>
      “Oh, abominable!” growled his Royal Highness.
    </p>
<p>
      “What will you take for it?” asked the artist.
    </p>
<p>
      “For his nose!” shouted her Grace.
    </p>
<p>
      “A thousand pounds,” said I, sitting down.
    </p>
<p>
      “A thousand pounds?” inquired the artist, musingly.
    </p>
<p>
      “A thousand pounds,” said I.
    </p>
<p>
      “Beautiful!” said he, entranced.
    </p>
<p>
      “A thousand pounds,” said I.
    </p>
<p>
      “Do you warrant it?” he asked, turning the nose to the light.
    </p>
<p>
      “I do,” said I, blowing it well.
    </p>
<p>
      “Is it quite original?” he inquired; touching it with
      reverence.
    </p>
<p>
      “Humph!” said I, twisting it to one side.
    </p>
<p>
      “Has no copy been taken?” he demanded, surveying it through a
      microscope.
    </p>
<p>
      “None,” said I, turning it up.
    </p>
<p>
      “Admirable!” he ejaculated, thrown quite off his guard by the
      beauty of the manoeuvre.
    </p>
<p>
      “A thousand pounds,” said I.
    </p>
<p>
      “A thousand pounds?” said he.
    </p>
<p>
      “Precisely,” said I.
    </p>
<p>
      “A thousand pounds?” said he.
    </p>
<p>
      “Just so,” said I.
    </p>
<p>
      “You shall have them,” said he. “What a piece of virtu!”
      So he drew me a check upon the spot, and took a sketch of my nose. I
      engaged rooms in Jermyn street, and sent her Majesty the ninety-ninth
      edition of the “Nosology,” with a portrait of the proboscis.—That
      sad little rake, the Prince of Wales, invited me to dinner.
    </p>
<p>
      We were all lions and recherch?s.
    </p>
<p>
      There was a modern Platonist. He quoted Porphyry, Iamblicus, Plotinus,
      Proclus, Hierocles, Maximus Tyrius, and Syrianus.
    </p>
<p>
      There was a human-perfectibility man. He quoted Turgot, Price, Priestly,
      Condorcet, De Stael, and the “Ambitious Student in Ill Health.”
    </p>
<p>
      There was Sir Positive Paradox. He observed that all fools were
      philosophers, and that all philosophers were fools.
    </p>
<p>
      There was ?stheticus Ethix. He spoke of fire, unity, and atoms; bi-part
      and pre-existent soul; affinity and discord; primitive intelligence and
      hom?omeria.
    </p>
<p>
      There was Theologos Theology. He talked of Eusebius and Arianus; heresy
      and the Council of Nice; Puseyism and consubstantialism; Homousios and
      Homouioisios.
    </p>
<p>
      There was Fricass?e from the Rocher de Cancale. He mentioned Muriton of
      red tongue; cauliflowers with velout? sauce; veal ? la St. Menehoult;
      marinade ? la St. Florentin; and orange jellies en mos?iques.
    </p>
<p>
      There was Bibulus O’Bumper. He touched upon Latour and Markbr?nnen;
      upon Mousseux and Chambertin; upon Richbourg and St. George; upon
      Haubrion, Leonville, and Medoc; upon Barac and Preignac; upon Gr?ve, upon
      Sauterne, upon Lafitte, and upon St. Peray. He shook his head at Clos de
      Vougeot, and told, with his eyes shut, the difference between Sherry and
      Amontillado.
    </p>
<p>
      There was Signor Tintontintino from Florence. He discoursed of Cimabu?,
      Arpino, Carpaccio, and Argostino—of the gloom of Caravaggio, of the
      amenity of Albano, of the colors of Titian, of the frows of Rubens, and of
      the waggeries of Jan Steen.
    </p>
<p>
      There was the President of the Fum-Fudge University. He was of opinion
      that the moon was called Bendis in Thrace, Bubastis in Egypt, Dian in
      Rome, and Artemis in Greece. There was a Grand Turk from Stamboul. He
      could not help thinking that the angels were horses, cocks, and bulls;
      that somebody in the sixth heaven had seventy thousand heads; and that the
      earth was supported by a sky-blue cow with an incalculable number of green
      horns.
    </p>
<p>
      There was Delphinus Polyglott. He told us what had become of the
      eighty-three lost tragedies of ?schylus; of the fifty-four orations of
      Is?us; of the three hundred and ninety-one speeches of Lysias; of the
      hundred and eighty treatises of Theophrastus; of the eighth book of the
      conic sections of Apollonius; of Pindar’s hymns and dithyrambics;
      and of the five and forty tragedies of Homer Junior.
    </p>
<p>
      There was Ferdinand Fitz-Fossillus Feltspar. He informed us all about
      internal fires and tertiary formations; about ?eriforms, fluidiforms, and
      solidiforms; about quartz and marl; about schist and schorl; about gypsum
      and trap; about talc and calc; about blende and horn-blende; about
      mica-slate and pudding-stone; about cyanite and lepidolite; about hematite
      and tremolite; about antimony and calcedony; about manganese and whatever
      you please.
    </p>
<p>
      There was myself. I spoke of myself;—of myself, of myself, of
      myself;—of Nosology, of my pamphlet, and of myself. I turned up my
      nose, and I spoke of myself.
    </p>
<p>
      “Marvellous clever man!” said the Prince.
    </p>
<p>
      “Superb!” said his guests:—and next morning her Grace of
      Bless-my-Soul paid me a visit.
    </p>
<p>
      “Will you go to Almack’s, pretty creature?” she said,
      tapping me under the chin.
    </p>
<p>
      “Upon honor,” said I.
    </p>
<p>
      “Nose and all?” she asked.
    </p>
<p>
      “As I live,” I replied.
    </p>
<p>
      “Here then is a card, my life. Shall I say you will be there?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Dear Duchess, with all my heart.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Pshaw, no!—but with all your nose?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Every bit of it, my love,” said I: so I gave it a twist or
      two, and found myself at Almack’s. The rooms were crowded to
      suffocation.
    </p>
<p>
      “He is coming!” said somebody on the staircase.
    </p>
<p>
      “He is coming!” said somebody farther up.
    </p>
<p>
      “He is coming!” said somebody farther still.
    </p>
<p>
      “He is come!” exclaimed the Duchess. “He is come, the
      little love!”—and, seizing me firmly by both hands, she kissed
      me thrice upon the nose. A marked sensation immediately ensued.
    </p>
<p>
      “Diavolo!” cried Count Capricornutti.
    </p>
<p>
      “Dios guarda!” muttered Don Stiletto.
    </p>
<p>
      “Mille tonnerres!” ejaculated the Prince de Grenouille.
    </p>
<p>
      “Tousand teufel!” growled the Elector of Bluddennuff.
    </p>
<p>
      It was not to be borne. I grew angry. I turned short upon Bluddennuff.
    </p>
<p>
      “Sir!” said I to him, “you are a baboon.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Sir,” he replied, after a pause, “Donner und Blitzen!”
    </p>
<p>
      This was all that could be desired. We exchanged cards. At Chalk-Farm, the
      next morning, I shot off his nose—and then called upon my friends.
    </p>
<p>
      “B?te!” said the first.
    </p>
<p>
      “Fool!” said the second.
    </p>
<p>
      “Dolt!” said the third.
    </p>
<p>
      “Ass!” said the fourth.
    </p>
<p>
      “Ninny!” said the fifth.
    </p>
<p>
      “Noodle!” said the sixth.
    </p>
<p>
      “Be off!” said the seventh.
    </p>
<p>
      At all this I felt mortified, and so called upon my father.
    </p>
<p>
      “Father,” I asked, “what is the chief end of my
      existence?”
    </p>
<p>
      “My son,” he replied, “it is still the study of
      Nosology; but in hitting the Elector upon the nose you have overshot your
      mark. You have a fine nose, it is true; but then Bluddennuff has none. You
      are damned, and he has become the hero of the day. I grant you that in
      Fum-Fudge the greatness of a lion is in proportion to the size of his
      proboscis—but, good heavens! there is no competing with a lion who
      has no proboscis at all.”
    </p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
