<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>The Devil in the Belfry</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="the-devil-in-the-belfry" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Devil in the Belfry</h2>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     What o’clock is it?—<i>Old Saying</i>.
</pre>
<p>
      EVERYBODY knows, in a general way, that the finest place in the world is—or,
      alas, was—the Dutch borough of Vondervotteimittiss. Yet as it lies
      some distance from any of the main roads, being in a somewhat
      out-of-the-way situation, there are perhaps very few of my readers who
      have ever paid it a visit. For the benefit of those who have not,
      therefore, it will be only proper that I should enter into some account of
      it. And this is indeed the more necessary, as with the hope of enlisting
      public sympathy in behalf of the inhabitants, I design here to give a
      history of the calamitous events which have so lately occurred within its
      limits. No one who knows me will doubt that the duty thus self-imposed
      will be executed to the best of my ability, with all that rigid
      impartiality, all that cautious examination into facts, and diligent
      collation of authorities, which should ever distinguish him who aspires to
      the title of historian.
    </p>
<p>
      By the united aid of medals, manuscripts, and inscriptions, I am enabled
      to say, positively, that the borough of Vondervotteimittiss has existed,
      from its origin, in precisely the same condition which it at present
      preserves. Of the date of this origin, however, I grieve that I can only
      speak with that species of indefinite definiteness which mathematicians
      are, at times, forced to put up with in certain algebraic formulae. The
      date, I may thus say, in regard to the remoteness of its antiquity, cannot
      be less than any assignable quantity whatsoever.
    </p>
<p>
      Touching the derivation of the name Vondervotteimittiss, I confess myself,
      with sorrow, equally at fault. Among a multitude of opinions upon this
      delicate point—some acute, some learned, some sufficiently the
      reverse—I am able to select nothing which ought to be considered
      satisfactory. Perhaps the idea of Grogswigg—nearly coincident with
      that of Kroutaplenttey—is to be cautiously preferred.—It runs:—“Vondervotteimittis—Vonder,
      lege Donder—Votteimittis, quasi und Bleitziz—Bleitziz obsol:—pro
      Blitzen.” This derivative, to say the truth, is still countenanced
      by some traces of the electric fluid evident on the summit of the steeple
      of the House of the Town-Council. I do not choose, however, to commit
      myself on a theme of such importance, and must refer the reader desirous
      of information to the “Oratiunculae de Rebus Praeter-Veteris,”
      of Dundergutz. See, also, Blunderbuzzard “De Derivationibus,”
      pp. 27 to 5010, Folio, Gothic edit., Red and Black character, Catch-word
      and No Cypher; wherein consult, also, marginal notes in the autograph of
      Stuffundpuff, with the Sub-Commentaries of Gruntundguzzell.
    </p>
<p>
      Notwithstanding the obscurity which thus envelops the date of the
      foundation of Vondervotteimittis, and the derivation of its name, there
      can be no doubt, as I said before, that it has always existed as we find
      it at this epoch. The oldest man in the borough can remember not the
      slightest difference in the appearance of any portion of it; and, indeed,
      the very suggestion of such a possibility is considered an insult. The
      site of the village is in a perfectly circular valley, about a quarter of
      a mile in circumference, and entirely surrounded by gentle hills, over
      whose summit the people have never yet ventured to pass. For this they
      assign the very good reason that they do not believe there is anything at
      all on the other side.
    </p>
<p>
      Round the skirts of the valley (which is quite level, and paved throughout
      with flat tiles), extends a continuous row of sixty little houses. These,
      having their backs on the hills, must look, of course, to the centre of
      the plain, which is just sixty yards from the front door of each dwelling.
      Every house has a small garden before it, with a circular path, a
      sun-dial, and twenty-four cabbages. The buildings themselves are so
      precisely alike, that one can in no manner be distinguished from the
      other. Owing to the vast antiquity, the style of architecture is somewhat
      odd, but it is not for that reason the less strikingly picturesque. They
      are fashioned of hard-burned little bricks, red, with black ends, so that
      the walls look like a chess-board upon a great scale. The gables are
      turned to the front, and there are cornices, as big as all the rest of the
      house, over the eaves and over the main doors. The windows are narrow and
      deep, with very tiny panes and a great deal of sash. On the roof is a vast
      quantity of tiles with long curly ears. The woodwork, throughout, is of a
      dark hue and there is much carving about it, with but a trifling variety
      of pattern for, time out of mind, the carvers of Vondervotteimittiss have
      never been able to carve more than two objects—a time-piece and a
      cabbage. But these they do exceedingly well, and intersperse them, with
      singular ingenuity, wherever they find room for the chisel.
    </p>
<p>
      The dwellings are as much alike inside as out, and the furniture is all
      upon one plan. The floors are of square tiles, the chairs and tables of
      black-looking wood with thin crooked legs and puppy feet. The mantelpieces
      are wide and high, and have not only time-pieces and cabbages sculptured
      over the front, but a real time-piece, which makes a prodigious ticking,
      on the top in the middle, with a flower-pot containing a cabbage standing
      on each extremity by way of outrider. Between each cabbage and the
      time-piece, again, is a little China man having a large stomach with a
      great round hole in it, through which is seen the dial-plate of a watch.
    </p>
<p>
      The fireplaces are large and deep, with fierce crooked-looking fire-dogs.
      There is constantly a rousing fire, and a huge pot over it, full of
      sauer-kraut and pork, to which the good woman of the house is always busy
      in attending. She is a little fat old lady, with blue eyes and a red face,
      and wears a huge cap like a sugar-loaf, ornamented with purple and yellow
      ribbons. Her dress is of orange-colored linsey-woolsey, made very full
      behind and very short in the waist—and indeed very short in other
      respects, not reaching below the middle of her leg. This is somewhat
      thick, and so are her ankles, but she has a fine pair of green stockings
      to cover them. Her shoes—of pink leather—are fastened each
      with a bunch of yellow ribbons puckered up in the shape of a cabbage. In
      her left hand she has a little heavy Dutch watch; in her right she wields
      a ladle for the sauerkraut and pork. By her side there stands a fat tabby
      cat, with a gilt toy-repeater tied to its tail, which “the boys”
      have there fastened by way of a quiz.
    </p>
<p>
      The boys themselves are, all three of them, in the garden attending the
      pig. They are each two feet in height. They have three-cornered cocked
      hats, purple waistcoats reaching down to their thighs, buckskin
      knee-breeches, red stockings, heavy shoes with big silver buckles, long
      surtout coats with large buttons of mother-of-pearl. Each, too, has a pipe
      in his mouth, and a little dumpy watch in his right hand. He takes a puff
      and a look, and then a look and a puff. The pig—which is corpulent
      and lazy—is occupied now in picking up the stray leaves that fall
      from the cabbages, and now in giving a kick behind at the gilt repeater,
      which the urchins have also tied to his tail in order to make him look as
      handsome as the cat.
    </p>
<p>
      Right at the front door, in a high-backed leather-bottomed armed chair,
      with crooked legs and puppy feet like the tables, is seated the old man of
      the house himself. He is an exceedingly puffy little old gentleman, with
      big circular eyes and a huge double chin. His dress resembles that of the
      boys—and I need say nothing farther about it. All the difference is,
      that his pipe is somewhat bigger than theirs and he can make a greater
      smoke. Like them, he has a watch, but he carries his watch in his pocket.
      To say the truth, he has something of more importance than a watch to
      attend to—and what that is, I shall presently explain. He sits with
      his right leg upon his left knee, wears a grave countenance, and always
      keeps one of his eyes, at least, resolutely bent upon a certain remarkable
      object in the centre of the plain.
    </p>
<p>
      This object is situated in the steeple of the House of the Town Council.
      The Town Council are all very little, round, oily, intelligent men, with
      big saucer eyes and fat double chins, and have their coats much longer and
      their shoe-buckles much bigger than the ordinary inhabitants of
      Vondervotteimittiss. Since my sojourn in the borough, they have had
      several special meetings, and have adopted these three important
      resolutions:
    </p>
<p>
      “That it is wrong to alter the good old course of things:”
    </p>
<p>
      “That there is nothing tolerable out of Vondervotteimittiss:”
      and—
    </p>
<p>
      “That we will stick by our clocks and our cabbages.”
    </p>
<p>
      Above the session-room of the Council is the steeple, and in the steeple
      is the belfry, where exists, and has existed time out of mind, the pride
      and wonder of the village—the great clock of the borough of
      Vondervotteimittiss. And this is the object to which the eyes of the old
      gentlemen are turned who sit in the leather-bottomed arm-chairs.
    </p>
<p>
      The great clock has seven faces—one in each of the seven sides of
      the steeple—so that it can be readily seen from all quarters. Its
      faces are large and white, and its hands heavy and black. There is a
      belfry-man whose sole duty is to attend to it; but this duty is the most
      perfect of sinecures—for the clock of Vondervotteimittis was never
      yet known to have anything the matter with it. Until lately, the bare
      supposition of such a thing was considered heretical. From the remotest
      period of antiquity to which the archives have reference, the hours have
      been regularly struck by the big bell. And, indeed the case was just the
      same with all the other clocks and watches in the borough. Never was such
      a place for keeping the true time. When the large clapper thought proper
      to say “Twelve o’clock!” all its obedient followers
      opened their throats simultaneously, and responded like a very echo. In
      short, the good burghers were fond of their sauer-kraut, but then they
      were proud of their clocks.
    </p>
<p>
      All people who hold sinecure offices are held in more or less respect, and
      as the belfry—man of Vondervotteimittiss has the most perfect of
      sinecures, he is the most perfectly respected of any man in the world. He
      is the chief dignitary of the borough, and the very pigs look up to him
      with a sentiment of reverence. His coat-tail is very far longer—his
      pipe, his shoe—buckles, his eyes, and his stomach, very far bigger—than
      those of any other old gentleman in the village; and as to his chin, it is
      not only double, but triple.
    </p>
<p>
      I have thus painted the happy estate of Vondervotteimittiss: alas, that so
      fair a picture should ever experience a reverse!
    </p>
<p>
      There has been long a saying among the wisest inhabitants, that “no
      good can come from over the hills”; and it really seemed that the
      words had in them something of the spirit of prophecy. It wanted five
      minutes of noon, on the day before yesterday, when there appeared a very
      odd-looking object on the summit of the ridge of the eastward. Such an
      occurrence, of course, attracted universal attention, and every little old
      gentleman who sat in a leather-bottomed arm-chair turned one of his eyes
      with a stare of dismay upon the phenomenon, still keeping the other upon
      the clock in the steeple.
    </p>
<p>
      By the time that it wanted only three minutes to noon, the droll object in
      question was perceived to be a very diminutive foreign-looking young man.
      He descended the hills at a great rate, so that every body had soon a good
      look at him. He was really the most finicky little personage that had ever
      been seen in Vondervotteimittiss. His countenance was of a dark
      snuff-color, and he had a long hooked nose, pea eyes, a wide mouth, and an
      excellent set of teeth, which latter he seemed anxious of displaying, as
      he was grinning from ear to ear. What with mustachios and whiskers, there
      was none of the rest of his face to be seen. His head was uncovered, and
      his hair neatly done up in papillotes. His dress was a tight-fitting
      swallow-tailed black coat (from one of whose pockets dangled a vast length
      of white handkerchief), black kerseymere knee-breeches, black stockings,
      and stumpy-looking pumps, with huge bunches of black satin ribbon for
      bows. Under one arm he carried a huge chapeau-de-bras, and under the other
      a fiddle nearly five times as big as himself. In his left hand was a gold
      snuff-box, from which, as he capered down the hill, cutting all manner of
      fantastic steps, he took snuff incessantly with an air of the greatest
      possible self-satisfaction. God bless me!—here was a sight for the
      honest burghers of Vondervotteimittiss!
    </p>
<p>
      To speak plainly, the fellow had, in spite of his grinning, an audacious
      and sinister kind of face; and as he curvetted right into the village, the
      old stumpy appearance of his pumps excited no little suspicion; and many a
      burgher who beheld him that day would have given a trifle for a peep
      beneath the white cambric handkerchief which hung so obtrusively from the
      pocket of his swallow-tailed coat. But what mainly occasioned a righteous
      indignation was, that the scoundrelly popinjay, while he cut a fandango
      here, and a whirligig there, did not seem to have the remotest idea in the
      world of such a thing as keeping time in his steps.
    </p>
<p>
      The good people of the borough had scarcely a chance, however, to get
      their eyes thoroughly open, when, just as it wanted half a minute of noon,
      the rascal bounced, as I say, right into the midst of them; gave a chassez
      here, and a balancez there; and then, after a pirouette and a
      pas-de-zephyr, pigeon-winged himself right up into the belfry of the House
      of the Town Council, where the wonder-stricken belfry-man sat smoking in a
      state of dignity and dismay. But the little chap seized him at once by the
      nose; gave it a swing and a pull; clapped the big chapeau de-bras upon his
      head; knocked it down over his eyes and mouth; and then, lifting up the
      big fiddle, beat him with it so long and so soundly, that what with the
      belfry-man being so fat, and the fiddle being so hollow, you would have
      sworn that there was a regiment of double-bass drummers all beating the
      devil’s tattoo up in the belfry of the steeple of
      Vondervotteimittiss.
    </p>
<p>
      There is no knowing to what desperate act of vengeance this unprincipled
      attack might have aroused the inhabitants, but for the important fact that
      it now wanted only half a second of noon. The bell was about to strike,
      and it was a matter of absolute and pre-eminent necessity that every body
      should look well at his watch. It was evident, however, that just at this
      moment the fellow in the steeple was doing something that he had no
      business to do with the clock. But as it now began to strike, nobody had
      any time to attend to his manoeuvres, for they had all to count the
      strokes of the bell as it sounded.
    </p>
<p>
      “One!” said the clock.
    </p>
<p>
      “Von!” echoed every little old gentleman in every
      leather-bottomed arm-chair in Vondervotteimittiss. “Von!” said
      his watch also; “von!” said the watch of his vrow; and “von!”
      said the watches of the boys, and the little gilt repeaters on the tails
      of the cat and pig.
    </p>
<p>
      “Two!” continued the big bell; and
    </p>
<p>
      “Doo!” repeated all the repeaters.
    </p>
<p>
      “Three! Four! Five! Six! Seven! Eight! Nine! Ten!” said the
      bell.
    </p>
<p>
      “Dree! Vour! Fibe! Sax! Seben! Aight! Noin! Den!” answered the
      others.
    </p>
<p>
      “Eleven!” said the big one.
    </p>
<p>
      “Eleben!” assented the little ones.
    </p>
<p>
      “Twelve!” said the bell.
    </p>
<p>
      “Dvelf!” they replied perfectly satisfied, and dropping their
      voices.
    </p>
<p>
      “Und dvelf it is!” said all the little old gentlemen, putting
      up their watches. But the big bell had not done with them yet.
    </p>
<p>
      “Thirteen!” said he.
    </p>
<p>
      “Der Teufel!” gasped the little old gentlemen, turning pale,
      dropping their pipes, and putting down all their right legs from over
      their left knees.
    </p>
<p>
      “Der Teufel!” groaned they, “Dirteen! Dirteen!!—Mein
      Gott, it is Dirteen o’clock!!”
    </p>
<p>
      Why attempt to describe the terrible scene which ensued? All
      Vondervotteimittiss flew at once into a lamentable state of uproar.
    </p>
<p>
      “Vot is cum’d to mein pelly?” roared all the boys—“I’ve
      been ongry for dis hour!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Vot is com’d to mein kraut?” screamed all the vrows,
      “It has been done to rags for this hour!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Vot is cum’d to mein pipe?” swore all the little old
      gentlemen, “Donder and Blitzen; it has been smoked out for dis hour!”—and
      they filled them up again in a great rage, and sinking back in their
      arm-chairs, puffed away so fast and so fiercely that the whole valley was
      immediately filled with impenetrable smoke.
    </p>
<p>
      Meantime the cabbages all turned very red in the face, and it seemed as if
      old Nick himself had taken possession of every thing in the shape of a
      timepiece. The clocks carved upon the furniture took to dancing as if
      bewitched, while those upon the mantel-pieces could scarcely contain
      themselves for fury, and kept such a continual striking of thirteen, and
      such a frisking and wriggling of their pendulums as was really horrible to
      see. But, worse than all, neither the cats nor the pigs could put up any
      longer with the behavior of the little repeaters tied to their tails, and
      resented it by scampering all over the place, scratching and poking, and
      squeaking and screeching, and caterwauling and squalling, and flying into
      the faces, and running under the petticoats of the people, and creating
      altogether the most abominable din and confusion which it is possible for
      a reasonable person to conceive. And to make matters still more
      distressing, the rascally little scape-grace in the steeple was evidently
      exerting himself to the utmost. Every now and then one might catch a
      glimpse of the scoundrel through the smoke. There he sat in the belfry
      upon the belfry-man, who was lying flat upon his back. In his teeth the
      villain held the bell-rope, which he kept jerking about with his head,
      raising such a clatter that my ears ring again even to think of it. On his
      lap lay the big fiddle, at which he was scraping, out of all time and
      tune, with both hands, making a great show, the nincompoop! of playing
      “Judy O’Flannagan and Paddy O’Rafferty.”
    </p>
<p>
      Affairs being thus miserably situated, I left the place in disgust, and
      now appeal for aid to all lovers of correct time and fine kraut. Let us
      proceed in a body to the borough, and restore the ancient order of things
      in Vondervotteimittiss by ejecting that little fellow from the steeple.
    </p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
