<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Why the Little Frenchman Wears His Hand in a Sling</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="why-the-little-frenchman-wears-his-hand-in-a-sling" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Why the Little Frenchman Wears His Hand in a Sling</h2>
<p>
      IT’S on my visiting cards sure enough (and it’s them that’s
      all o’ pink satin paper) that inny gintleman that plases may behould
      the intheristhin words, “Sir Pathrick O’Grandison, Barronitt,
      39 Southampton Row, Russell Square, Parrish o’ Bloomsbury.”
      And shud ye be wantin’ to diskiver who is the pink of purliteness
      quite, and the laider of the hot tun in the houl city o’ Lonon—why
      it’s jist mesilf. And fait that same is no wonder at all at all (so
      be plased to stop curlin your nose), for every inch o’ the six wakes
      that I’ve been a gintleman, and left aff wid the bogthrothing to
      take up wid the Barronissy, it’s Pathrick that’s been living
      like a houly imperor, and gitting the iddication and the graces. Och! and
      wouldn’t it be a blessed thing for your spirrits if ye cud lay your
      two peepers jist, upon Sir Pathrick O’Grandison, Barronitt, when he
      is all riddy drissed for the hopperer, or stipping into the Brisky for the
      drive into the Hyde Park. But it’s the illigant big figgur that I
      ave, for the rason o’ which all the ladies fall in love wid me. Isn’t
      it my own swate silf now that’ll missure the six fut, and the three
      inches more nor that, in me stockins, and that am excadingly will
      proportioned all over to match? And it is ralelly more than three fut and
      a bit that there is, inny how, of the little ould furrener Frinchman that
      lives jist over the way, and that’s a oggling and a goggling the
      houl day, (and bad luck to him,) at the purty widdy Misthress Tracle that’s
      my own nixt-door neighbor, (God bliss her!) and a most particuller frind
      and acquaintance? You percave the little spalpeen is summat down in the
      mouth, and wears his lift hand in a sling, and it’s for that same
      thing, by yur lave, that I’m going to give you the good rason.
    </p>
<p>
      The truth of the houl matter is jist simple enough; for the very first day
      that I com’d from Connaught, and showd my swate little silf in the
      strait to the widdy, who was looking through the windy, it was a gone case
      althegither with the heart o’ the purty Misthress Tracle. I percaved
      it, ye see, all at once, and no mistake, and that’s God’s
      truth. First of all it was up wid the windy in a jiffy, and thin she threw
      open her two peepers to the itmost, and thin it was a little gould
      spy-glass that she clapped tight to one o’ them and divil may burn
      me if it didn’t spake to me as plain as a peeper cud spake, and says
      it, through the spy-glass: “Och! the tip o’ the mornin’
      to ye, Sir Pathrick O’Grandison, Barronitt, mavourneen; and it’s
      a nate gintleman that ye are, sure enough, and it’s mesilf and me
      forten jist that’ll be at yur sarvice, dear, inny time o’ day
      at all at all for the asking.” And it’s not mesilf ye wud have
      to be bate in the purliteness; so I made her a bow that wud ha’
      broken yur heart altegither to behould, and thin I pulled aff me hat with
      a flourish, and thin I winked at her hard wid both eyes, as much as to
      say, “True for you, yer a swate little crature, Mrs. Tracle, me
      darlint, and I wish I may be drownthed dead in a bog, if it’s not
      mesilf, Sir Pathrick O’Grandison, Barronitt, that’ll make a
      houl bushel o’ love to yur leddyship, in the twinkling o’ the
      eye of a Londonderry purraty.”
    </p>
<p>
      And it was the nixt mornin’, sure, jist as I was making up me mind
      whither it wouldn’t be the purlite thing to sind a bit o’
      writin’ to the widdy by way of a love-litter, when up com’d
      the delivery servant wid an illigant card, and he tould me that the name
      on it (for I niver could rade the copperplate printin on account of being
      lift handed) was all about Mounseer, the Count, A Goose, Look—aisy,
      Maiter-di-dauns, and that the houl of the divilish lingo was the spalpeeny
      long name of the little ould furrener Frinchman as lived over the way.
    </p>
<p>
      And jist wid that in cum’d the little willian himself, and then he
      made me a broth of a bow, and thin he said he had ounly taken the liberty
      of doing me the honor of the giving me a call, and thin he went on to
      palaver at a great rate, and divil the bit did I comprehind what he wud be
      afther the tilling me at all at all, excipting and saving that he said
      “pully wou, woolly wou,” and tould me, among a bushel o’
      lies, bad luck to him, that he was mad for the love o’ my widdy
      Misthress Tracle, and that my widdy Mrs. Tracle had a puncheon for him.
    </p>
<p>
      At the hearin’ of this, ye may swear, though, I was as mad as a
      grasshopper, but I remimbered that I was Sir Pathrick O’Grandison,
      Barronitt, and that it wasn’t althegither gentaal to lit the anger
      git the upper hand o’ the purliteness, so I made light o’ the
      matter and kipt dark, and got quite sociable wid the little chap, and
      afther a while what did he do but ask me to go wid him to the widdy’s,
      saying he wud give me the feshionable inthroduction to her leddyship.
    </p>
<p>
      “Is it there ye are?” said I thin to mesilf, “and it’s
      thrue for you, Pathrick, that ye’re the fortunittest mortal in life.
      We’ll soon see now whither it’s your swate silf, or whither it’s
      little Mounseer Maiter-di-dauns, that Misthress Tracle is head and ears in
      the love wid.”
    </p>
<p>
      Wid that we wint aff to the widdy’s, next door, and ye may well say
      it was an illigant place; so it was. There was a carpet all over the
      floor, and in one corner there was a forty-pinny and a Jew’s harp
      and the divil knows what ilse, and in another corner was a sofy, the
      beautifullest thing in all natur, and sitting on the sofy, sure enough,
      there was the swate little angel, Misthress Tracle.
    </p>
<p>
      “The tip o’ the mornin’ to ye,” says I, “Mrs.
      Tracle,” and thin I made sich an illigant obaysance that it wud ha
      quite althegither bewildered the brain o’ ye.
    </p>
<p>
      “Wully woo, pully woo, plump in the mud,” says the little
      furrenner Frinchman, “and sure Mrs. Tracle,” says he, that he
      did, “isn’t this gintleman here jist his reverence Sir
      Pathrick O’Grandison, Barronitt, and isn’t he althegither and
      entirely the most particular frind and acquaintance that I have in the
      houl world?”
    </p>
<p>
      And wid that the widdy, she gits up from the sofy, and makes the swatest
      curthchy nor iver was seen; and thin down she sits like an angel; and
      thin, by the powers, it was that little spalpeen Mounseer Maiter-di-dauns
      that plumped his silf right down by the right side of her. Och hon! I
      ixpicted the two eyes o’ me wud ha cum’d out of my head on the
      spot, I was so dispirate mad! Howiver, “Bait who!” says I,
      after awhile. “Is it there ye are, Mounseer Maiter-di-dauns?”
      and so down I plumped on the lift side of her leddyship, to be aven with
      the willain. Botheration! it wud ha done your heart good to percave the
      illigant double wink that I gived her jist thin right in the face with
      both eyes.
    </p>
<p>
      But the little ould Frinchman he niver beginned to suspict me at all at
      all, and disperate hard it was he made the love to her leddyship. “Woully
      wou,” says he, “Pully wou,” says he, “Plump in the
      mud,” says he.
    </p>
<p>
      “That’s all to no use, Mounseer Frog, mavourneen,”
      thinks I; and I talked as hard and as fast as I could all the while, and
      throth it was mesilf jist that divarted her leddyship complately and
      intirely, by rason of the illigant conversation that I kipt up wid her all
      about the dear bogs of Connaught. And by and by she gived me such a swate
      smile, from one ind of her mouth to the ither, that it made me as bould as
      a pig, and I jist took hould of the ind of her little finger in the most
      dillikitest manner in natur, looking at her all the while out o’ the
      whites of my eyes.
    </p>
<p>
      And then ounly percave the cuteness of the swate angel, for no sooner did
      she obsarve that I was afther the squazing of her flipper, than she up wid
      it in a jiffy, and put it away behind her back, jist as much as to say,
      “Now thin, Sir Pathrick O’Grandison, there’s a bitther
      chance for ye, mavourneen, for it’s not altogether the gentaal thing
      to be afther the squazing of my flipper right full in the sight of that
      little furrenner Frinchman, Mounseer Maiter-di-dauns.”
    </p>
<p>
      Wid that I giv’d her a big wink jist to say, “lit Sir Pathrick
      alone for the likes o’ them thricks,” and thin I wint aisy to
      work, and you’d have died wid the divarsion to behould how cliverly
      I slipped my right arm betwane the back o’ the sofy, and the back of
      her leddyship, and there, sure enough, I found a swate little flipper all
      a waiting to say, “the tip o’ the mornin’ to ye, Sir
      Pathrick O’Grandison, Barronitt.” And wasn’t it mesilf,
      sure, that jist giv’d it the laste little bit of a squaze in the
      world, all in the way of a commincement, and not to be too rough wid her
      leddyship? and och, botheration, wasn’t it the gentaalest and
      dilikittest of all the little squazes that I got in return? “Blood
      and thunder, Sir Pathrick, mavourneen,” thinks I to mesilf, “fait
      it’s jist the mother’s son of you, and nobody else at all at
      all, that’s the handsomest and the fortunittest young bog-throtter
      that ever cum’d out of Connaught!” And with that I givd the
      flipper a big squaze, and a big squaze it was, by the powers, that her
      leddyship giv’d to me back. But it would ha split the seven sides of
      you wid the laffin’ to behould, jist then all at once, the consated
      behavior of Mounseer Maiter-di-dauns. The likes o’ sich a jabbering,
      and a smirking, and a parley-wouing as he begin’d wid her leddyship,
      niver was known before upon arth; and divil may burn me if it wasn’t
      me own very two peepers that cotch’d him tipping her the wink out of
      one eye. Och, hon! if it wasn’t mesilf thin that was mad as a
      Kilkenny cat I shud like to be tould who it was!
    </p>
<p>
      “Let me infarm you, Mounseer Maiter-di-dauns,” said I, as
      purlite as iver ye seed, “that it’s not the gintaal thing at
      all at all, and not for the likes o’ you inny how, to be afther the
      oggling and a goggling at her leddyship in that fashion,” and jist
      wid that such another squaze as it was I giv’d her flipper, all as
      much as to say, “isn’t it Sir Pathrick now, my jewel, that’ll
      be able to the proticting o’ you, my darlint?” and then there
      cum’d another squaze back, all by way of the answer. “Thrue
      for you, Sir Pathrick,” it said as plain as iver a squaze said in
      the world, “Thrue for you, Sir Pathrick, mavourneen, and it’s
      a proper nate gintleman ye are—that’s God’s truth,”
      and with that she opened her two beautiful peepers till I belaved they wud
      ha’ cum’d out of her hid althegither and intirely, and she
      looked first as mad as a cat at Mounseer Frog, and thin as smiling as all
      out o’ doors at mesilf.
    </p>
<p>
      “Thin,” says he, the willian, “Och hon! and a wolly-wou,
      pully-wou,” and then wid that he shoved up his two shoulders till
      the divil the bit of his hid was to be diskivered, and then he let down
      the two corners of his purraty-trap, and thin not a haporth more of the
      satisfaction could I git out o’ the spalpeen.
    </p>
<p>
      Belave me, my jewel, it was Sir Pathrick that was unreasonable mad thin,
      and the more by token that the Frinchman kipt an wid his winking at the
      widdy; and the widdy she kept an wid the squazing of my flipper, as much
      as to say, “At him again, Sir Pathrick O’Grandison,
      mavourneen:” so I just ripped out wid a big oath, and says I;
    </p>
<p>
      “Ye little spalpeeny frog of a bog-throtting son of a bloody noun!”—and
      jist thin what d’ye think it was that her leddyship did? Troth she
      jumped up from the sofy as if she was bit, and made off through the door,
      while I turned my head round afther her, in a complate bewilderment and
      botheration, and followed her wid me two peepers. You percave I had a
      reason of my own for knowing that she couldn’t git down the stares
      althegither and intirely; for I knew very well that I had hould of her
      hand, for the divil the bit had I iver lit it go. And says I; “Isn’t
      it the laste little bit of a mistake in the world that ye’ve been
      afther the making, yer leddyship? Come back now, that’s a darlint,
      and I’ll give ye yur flipper.” But aff she wint down the
      stairs like a shot, and thin I turned round to the little Frinch
      furrenner. Och hon! if it wasn’t his spalpeeny little paw that I had
      hould of in my own—why thin—thin it wasn’t—that’s
      all.
    </p>
<p>
      And maybe it wasn’t mesilf that jist died then outright wid the
      laffin’, to behold the little chap when he found out that it wasn’t
      the widdy at all at all that he had had hould of all the time, but only
      Sir Pathrick O’Grandison. The ould divil himself niver behild sich a
      long face as he pet an! As for Sir Pathrick O’Grandison, Barronitt,
      it wasn’t for the likes of his riverence to be afther the minding of
      a thrifle of a mistake. Ye may jist say, though (for it’s God’s
      thruth), that afore I left hould of the flipper of the spalpeen (which was
      not till afther her leddyship’s futman had kicked us both down the
      stairs), I giv’d it such a nate little broth of a squaze as made it
      all up into raspberry jam.
    </p>
<p>
      “Woully wou,” says he, “pully wou,” says he—“Cot
      tam!”
    </p>
<p>
      And that’s jist the thruth of the rason why he wears his lift hand
      in a sling.
    </p>
<p>
      BON-BON.
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
          Quand un bon vin meuble mon estomac,
          Je suis plus savant que Balzac—          Plus sage que Pibrac;
          Mon brass seul faisant l’attaque
          De la nation Coseaque,
          La mettroit au sac;
          De Charon je passerois le lac,
          En dormant dans son bac;
          J’irois au fier Eac,
          Sans que mon coeur fit tic ni tac,
          Pr?senter du tabac.
                      French Vaudeville
</pre>
<p>
      THAT Pierre Bon-Bon was a <i>restaurateur</i> of uncommon qualifications,
      no man who, during the reign of——, frequented the little C?f?
      in the cul-de-sac Le Febvre at Rouen, will, I imagine, feel himself at
      liberty to dispute. That Pierre Bon-Bon was, in an equal degree, skilled
      in the philosophy of that period is, I presume, still more especially
      undeniable. His <i>pat?s ? la fois</i> were beyond doubt immaculate; but
      what pen can do justice to his essays <i>sur la Nature</i>—his
      thoughts sur <i>l’Ame</i>—his observations <i>sur l’Esprit?</i>
      If his <i>omelettes</i>—if his <i>fricandeaux</i> were inestimable,
      what <i>litt?rateur</i> of that day would not have given twice as much for
      an “<i>Id?e de Bon-Bon</i>” as for all the trash of “<i>Id?es</i>”
      of all the rest of the <i>savants?</i> Bon-Bon had ransacked libraries
      which no other man had ransacked—had more than any other would have
      entertained a notion of reading—had understood more than any other
      would have conceived the possibility of understanding; and although, while
      he flourished, there were not wanting some authors at Rouen to assert
      “that his <i>dicta</i> evinced neither the purity of the Academy,
      nor the depth of the Lyceum”—although, mark me, his doctrines
      were by no means very generally comprehended, still it did not follow that
      they were difficult of comprehension. It was, I think, on account of their
      self-evidency that many persons were led to consider them abstruse. It is
      to Bon-Bon—but let this go no farther—it is to Bon-Bon that
      Kant himself is mainly indebted for his metaphysics. The former was indeed
      not a Platonist, nor strictly speaking an Aristotelian—nor did he,
      like the modern Leibnitz, waste those precious hours which might be
      employed in the invention of a <i>fricas?e</i> or, <i>facili gradu</i>,
      the analysis of a sensation, in frivolous attempts at reconciling the
      obstinate oils and waters of ethical discussion. Not at all. Bon-Bon was
      Ionic—Bon-Bon was equally Italic. He reasoned <i>? priori</i>—He
      reasoned also <i>? posteriori</i>. His ideas were innate—or
      otherwise. He believed in George of Trebizonde—He believed in
      Bossarion [Bessarion]. Bon-Bon was emphatically a—Bon-Bonist.
    </p>
<p>
      I have spoken of the philosopher in his capacity of <i>restaurateur</i>. I
      would not, however, have any friend of mine imagine that, in fulfilling
      his hereditary duties in that line, our hero wanted a proper estimation of
      their dignity and importance. Far from it. It was impossible to say in
      which branch of his profession he took the greater pride. In his opinion
      the powers of the intellect held intimate connection with the capabilities
      of the stomach. I am not sure, indeed, that he greatly disagreed with the
      Chinese, who held that the soul lies in the abdomen. The Greeks at all
      events were right, he thought, who employed the same words for the mind
      and the diaphragm. (*1) By this I do not mean to insinuate a charge of
      gluttony, or indeed any other serious charge to the prejudice of the
      metaphysician. If Pierre Bon-Bon had his failings—and what great man
      has not a thousand?—if Pierre Bon-Bon, I say, had his failings, they
      were failings of very little importance—faults indeed which, in
      other tempers, have often been looked upon rather in the light of virtues.
      As regards one of these foibles, I should not even have mentioned it in
      this history but for the remarkable prominency—the extreme <i>alto
      relievo</i>—in which it jutted out from the plane of his general
      disposition. He could never let slip an opportunity of making a bargain.
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     {*1} MD
</pre>
<p>
      Not that he was avaricious—no. It was by no means necessary to the
      satisfaction of the philosopher, that the bargain should be to his own
      proper advantage. Provided a trade could be effected—a trade of any
      kind, upon any terms, or under any circumstances—a triumphant smile
      was seen for many days thereafter to enlighten his countenance, and a
      knowing wink of the eye to give evidence of his sagacity.
    </p>
<p>
      At any epoch it would not be very wonderful if a humor so peculiar as the
      one I have just mentioned, should elicit attention and remark. At the
      epoch of our narrative, had this peculiarity not attracted observation,
      there would have been room for wonder indeed. It was soon reported that,
      upon all occasions of the kind, the smile of Bon-Bon was wont to differ
      widely from the downright grin with which he would laugh at his own jokes,
      or welcome an acquaintance. Hints were thrown out of an exciting nature;
      stories were told of perilous bargains made in a hurry and repented of at
      leisure; and instances were adduced of unaccountable capacities, vague
      longings, and unnatural inclinations implanted by the author of all evil
      for wise purposes of his own.
    </p>
<p>
      The philosopher had other weaknesses—but they are scarcely worthy
      our serious examination. For example, there are few men of extraordinary
      profundity who are found wanting in an inclination for the bottle. Whether
      this inclination be an exciting cause, or rather a valid proof of such
      profundity, it is a nice thing to say. Bon-Bon, as far as I can learn, did
      not think the subject adapted to minute investigation;—nor do I. Yet
      in the indulgence of a propensity so truly classical, it is not to be
      supposed that the restaurateur would lose sight of that intuitive
      discrimination which was wont to characterize, at one and the same time,
      his essais and his omelettes. In his seclusions the Vin de Bourgogne had
      its allotted hour, and there were appropriate moments for the Cotes du
      Rhone. With him Sauterne was to Medoc what Catullus was to Homer. He would
      sport with a syllogism in sipping St. Peray, but unravel an argument over
      Clos de Vougeot, and upset a theory in a torrent of Chambertin. Well had
      it been if the same quick sense of propriety had attended him in the
      peddling propensity to which I have formerly alluded—but this was by
      no means the case. Indeed to say the truth, that trait of mind in the
      philosophic Bon-Bon did begin at length to assume a character of strange
      intensity and mysticism, and appeared deeply tinctured with the diablerie
      of his favorite German studies.
    </p>
<p>
      To enter the little Cafe in the cul-de-sac Le Febvre was, at the period of
      our tale, to enter the sanctum of a man of genius. Bon-Bon was a man of
      genius. There was not a sous-cusinier in Rouen, who could not have told
      you that Bon-Bon was a man of genius. His very cat knew it, and forebore
      to whisk her tail in the presence of the man of genius. His large
      water-dog was acquainted with the fact, and upon the approach of his
      master, betrayed his sense of inferiority by a sanctity of deportment, a
      debasement of the ears, and a dropping of the lower jaw not altogether
      unworthy of a dog. It is, however, true that much of this habitual respect
      might have been attributed to the personal appearance of the
      metaphysician. A distinguished exterior will, I am constrained to say,
      have its way even with a beast; and I am willing to allow much in the
      outward man of the restaurateur calculated to impress the imagination of
      the quadruped. There is a peculiar majesty about the atmosphere of the
      little great—if I may be permitted so equivocal an expression—which
      mere physical bulk alone will be found at all times inefficient in
      creating. If, however, Bon-Bon was barely three feet in height, and if his
      head was diminutively small, still it was impossible to behold the
      rotundity of his stomach without a sense of magnificence nearly bordering
      upon the sublime. In its size both dogs and men must have seen a type of
      his acquirements—in its immensity a fitting habitation for his
      immortal soul.
    </p>
<p>
      I might here—if it so pleased me—dilate upon the matter of
      habiliment, and other mere circumstances of the external metaphysician. I
      might hint that the hair of our hero was worn short, combed smoothly over
      his forehead, and surmounted by a conical-shaped white flannel cap and
      tassels—that his pea-green jerkin was not after the fashion of those
      worn by the common class of restaurateurs at that day—that the
      sleeves were something fuller than the reigning costume permitted—that
      the cuffs were turned up, not as usual in that barbarous period, with
      cloth of the same quality and color as the garment, but faced in a more
      fanciful manner with the particolored velvet of Genoa—that his
      slippers were of a bright purple, curiously filigreed, and might have been
      manufactured in Japan, but for the exquisite pointing of the toes, and the
      brilliant tints of the binding and embroidery—that his breeches were
      of the yellow satin-like material called aimable—that his sky-blue
      cloak, resembling in form a dressing-wrapper, and richly bestudded all
      over with crimson devices, floated cavalierly upon his shoulders like a
      mist of the morning—and that his tout ensemble gave rise to the
      remarkable words of Benevenuta, the Improvisatrice of Florence, “that
      it was difficult to say whether Pierre Bon-Bon was indeed a bird of
      Paradise, or rather a very Paradise of perfection.” I might, I say,
      expatiate upon all these points if I pleased,—but I forbear, merely
      personal details may be left to historical novelists,—they are
      beneath the moral dignity of matter-of-fact.
    </p>
<p>
      I have said that “to enter the Cafe in the cul-de-sac Le Febvre was
      to enter the sanctum of a man of genius”—but then it was only
      the man of genius who could duly estimate the merits of the sanctum. A
      sign, consisting of a vast folio, swung before the entrance. On one side
      of the volume was painted a bottle; on the reverse a pate. On the back
      were visible in large letters Oeuvres de Bon-Bon. Thus was delicately
      shadowed forth the two-fold occupation of the proprietor.
    </p>
<p>
      Upon stepping over the threshold, the whole interior of the building
      presented itself to view. A long, low-pitched room, of antique
      construction, was indeed all the accommodation afforded by the Cafe. In a
      corner of the apartment stood the bed of the metaphysician. An army of
      curtains, together with a canopy a la Grecque, gave it an air at once
      classic and comfortable. In the corner diagonary opposite, appeared, in
      direct family communion, the properties of the kitchen and the
      bibliotheque. A dish of polemics stood peacefully upon the dresser. Here
      lay an ovenful of the latest ethics—there a kettle of dudecimo
      melanges. Volumes of German morality were hand and glove with the gridiron—a
      toasting-fork might be discovered by the side of Eusebius—Plato
      reclined at his ease in the frying-pan—and contemporary manuscripts
      were filed away upon the spit.
    </p>
<p>
      In other respects the Cafe de Bon-Bon might be said to differ little from
      the usual restaurants of the period. A fireplace yawned opposite the door.
      On the right of the fireplace an open cupboard displayed a formidable
      array of labelled bottles.
    </p>
<p>
      It was here, about twelve o’clock one night during the severe winter
      the comments of his neighbours upon his singular propensity—that
      Pierre Bon-Bon, I say, having turned them all out of his house, locked the
      door upon them with an oath, and betook himself in no very pacific mood to
      the comforts of a leather-bottomed arm-chair, and a fire of blazing
      fagots.
    </p>
<p>
      It was one of those terrific nights which are only met with once or twice
      during a century. It snowed fiercely, and the house tottered to its centre
      with the floods of wind that, rushing through the crannies in the wall,
      and pouring impetuously down the chimney, shook awfully the curtains of
      the philosopher’s bed, and disorganized the economy of his pate-pans
      and papers. The huge folio sign that swung without, exposed to the fury of
      the tempest, creaked ominously, and gave out a moaning sound from its
      stanchions of solid oak.
    </p>
<p>
      It was in no placid temper, I say, that the metaphysician drew up his
      chair to its customary station by the hearth. Many circumstances of a
      perplexing nature had occurred during the day, to disturb the serenity of
      his meditations. In attempting des oeufs a la Princesse, he had
      unfortunately perpetrated an omelette a la Reine; the discovery of a
      principle in ethics had been frustrated by the overturning of a stew; and
      last, not least, he had been thwarted in one of those admirable bargains
      which he at all times took such especial delight in bringing to a
      successful termination. But in the chafing of his mind at these
      unaccountable vicissitudes, there did not fail to be mingled some degree
      of that nervous anxiety which the fury of a boisterous night is so well
      calculated to produce. Whistling to his more immediate vicinity the large
      black water-dog we have spoken of before, and settling himself uneasily in
      his chair, he could not help casting a wary and unquiet eye toward those
      distant recesses of the apartment whose inexorable shadows not even the
      red firelight itself could more than partially succeed in overcoming.
      Having completed a scrutiny whose exact purpose was perhaps unintelligible
      to himself, he drew close to his seat a small table covered with books and
      papers, and soon became absorbed in the task of retouching a voluminous
      manuscript, intended for publication on the morrow.
    </p>
<p>
      He had been thus occupied for some minutes when “I am in no hurry,
      Monsieur Bon-Bon,” suddenly whispered a whining voice in the
      apartment.
    </p>
<p>
      “The devil!” ejaculated our hero, starting to his feet,
      overturning the table at his side, and staring around him in astonishment.
    </p>
<p>
      “Very true,” calmly replied the voice.
    </p>
<p>
      “Very true!—what is very true?—how came you here?”
      vociferated the metaphysician, as his eye fell upon something which lay
      stretched at full length upon the bed.
    </p>
<p>
      “I was saying,” said the intruder, without attending to the
      interrogatives,—“I was saying that I am not at all pushed for
      time—that the business upon which I took the liberty of calling, is
      of no pressing importance—in short, that I can very well wait until
      you have finished your Exposition.”
    </p>
<p>
      “My Exposition!—there now!—how do you know?—how
      came you to understand that I was writing an Exposition?—good God!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Hush!” replied the figure, in a shrill undertone; and,
      arising quickly from the bed, he made a single step toward our hero, while
      an iron lamp that depended over-head swung convulsively back from his
      approach.
    </p>
<p>
      The philosopher’s amazement did not prevent a narrow scrutiny of the
      stranger’s dress and appearance. The outlines of his figure,
      exceedingly lean, but much above the common height, were rendered minutely
      distinct, by means of a faded suit of black cloth which fitted tight to
      the skin, but was otherwise cut very much in the style of a century ago.
      These garments had evidently been intended for a much shorter person than
      their present owner. His ankles and wrists were left naked for several
      inches. In his shoes, however, a pair of very brilliant buckles gave the
      lie to the extreme poverty implied by the other portions of his dress. His
      head was bare, and entirely bald, with the exception of a hinder part,
      from which depended a queue of considerable length. A pair of green
      spectacles, with side glasses, protected his eyes from the influence of
      the light, and at the same time prevented our hero from ascertaining
      either their color or their conformation. About the entire person there
      was no evidence of a shirt, but a white cravat, of filthy appearance, was
      tied with extreme precision around the throat and the ends hanging down
      formally side by side gave (although I dare say unintentionally) the idea
      of an ecclesiastic. Indeed, many other points both in his appearance and
      demeanor might have very well sustained a conception of that nature. Over
      his left ear, he carried, after the fashion of a modern clerk, an
      instrument resembling the stylus of the ancients. In a breast-pocket of
      his coat appeared conspicuously a small black volume fastened with clasps
      of steel. This book, whether accidentally or not, was so turned outwardly
      from the person as to discover the words “Rituel Catholique”
      in white letters upon the back. His entire physiognomy was interestingly
      saturnine—even cadaverously pale. The forehead was lofty, and deeply
      furrowed with the ridges of contemplation. The corners of the mouth were
      drawn down into an expression of the most submissive humility. There was
      also a clasping of the hands, as he stepped toward our hero—a deep
      sigh—and altogether a look of such utter sanctity as could not have
      failed to be unequivocally preposessing. Every shadow of anger faded from
      the countenance of the metaphysician, as, having completed a satisfactory
      survey of his visiter’s person, he shook him cordially by the hand,
      and conducted him to a seat.
    </p>
<p>
      There would however be a radical error in attributing this instantaneous
      transition of feeling in the philosopher, to any one of those causes which
      might naturally be supposed to have had an influence. Indeed, Pierre
      Bon-Bon, from what I have been able to understand of his disposition, was
      of all men the least likely to be imposed upon by any speciousness of
      exterior deportment. It was impossible that so accurate an observer of men
      and things should have failed to discover, upon the moment, the real
      character of the personage who had thus intruded upon his hospitality. To
      say no more, the conformation of his visiter’s feet was sufficiently
      remarkable—he maintained lightly upon his head an inordinately tall
      hat—there was a tremulous swelling about the hinder part of his
      breeches—and the vibration of his coat tail was a palpable fact.
      Judge, then, with what feelings of satisfaction our hero found himself
      thrown thus at once into the society of a person for whom he had at all
      times entertained the most unqualified respect. He was, however, too much
      of the diplomatist to let escape him any intimation of his suspicions in
      regard to the true state of affairs. It was not his cue to appear at all
      conscious of the high honor he thus unexpectedly enjoyed; but, by leading
      his guest into the conversation, to elicit some important ethical ideas,
      which might, in obtaining a place in his contemplated publication,
      enlighten the human race, and at the same time immortalize himself—ideas
      which, I should have added, his visitor’s great age, and well-known
      proficiency in the science of morals, might very well have enabled him to
      afford.
    </p>
<p>
      Actuated by these enlightened views, our hero bade the gentleman sit down,
      while he himself took occasion to throw some fagots upon the fire, and
      place upon the now re-established table some bottles of Mousseux. Having
      quickly completed these operations, he drew his chair vis-a-vis to his
      companion’s, and waited until the latter should open the
      conversation. But plans even the most skilfully matured are often thwarted
      in the outset of their application—and the restaurateur found
      himself nonplussed by the very first words of his visiter’s speech.
    </p>
<p>
      “I see you know me, Bon-Bon,” said he; “ha! ha! ha!—he!
      he! he!—hi! hi! hi!—ho! ho! ho!—hu! hu! hu!”—and
      the devil, dropping at once the sanctity of his demeanor, opened to its
      fullest extent a mouth from ear to ear, so as to display a set of jagged
      and fang-like teeth, and, throwing back his head, laughed long, loudly,
      wickedly, and uproariously, while the black dog, crouching down upon his
      haunches, joined lustily in the chorus, and the tabby cat, flying off at a
      tangent, stood up on end, and shrieked in the farthest corner of the
      apartment.
    </p>
<p>
      Not so the philosopher; he was too much a man of the world either to laugh
      like the dog, or by shrieks to betray the indecorous trepidation of the
      cat. It must be confessed, he felt a little astonishment to see the white
      letters which formed the words “Rituel Catholique” on the book
      in his guest’s pocket, momently changing both their color and their
      import, and in a few seconds, in place of the original title the words
      Regitre des Condamnes blazed forth in characters of red. This startling
      circumstance, when Bon-Bon replied to his visiter’s remark, imparted
      to his manner an air of embarrassment which probably might, not otherwise
      have been observed.
    </p>
<p>
      “Why sir,” said the philosopher, “why sir, to speak
      sincerely—I I imagine—I have some faint—some very faint
      idea—of the remarkable honor-”
    </p>
<p>
      “Oh!—ah!—yes!—very well!” interrupted his
      Majesty; “say no more—I see how it is.” And hereupon,
      taking off his green spectacles, he wiped the glasses carefully with the
      sleeve of his coat, and deposited them in his pocket.
    </p>
<p>
      If Bon-Bon had been astonished at the incident of the book, his amazement
      was now much increased by the spectacle which here presented itself to
      view. In raising his eyes, with a strong feeling of curiosity to ascertain
      the color of his guest’s, he found them by no means black, as he had
      anticipated—nor gray, as might have been imagined—nor yet
      hazel nor blue—nor indeed yellow nor red—nor purple—nor
      white—nor green—nor any other color in the heavens above, or
      in the earth beneath, or in the waters under the earth. In short, Pierre
      Bon-Bon not only saw plainly that his Majesty had no eyes whatsoever, but
      could discover no indications of their having existed at any previous
      period—for the space where eyes should naturally have been was, I am
      constrained to say, simply a dead level of flesh.
    </p>
<p>
      It was not in the nature of the metaphysician to forbear making some
      inquiry into the sources of so strange a phenomenon, and the reply of his
      Majesty was at once prompt, dignified, and satisfactory.
    </p>
<p>
      “Eyes! my dear Bon-Bon—eyes! did you say?—oh!—ah!—I
      perceive! The ridiculous prints, eh, which are in, circulation, have given
      you a false idea of my personal appearance? Eyes!—true. Eyes, Pierre
      Bon-Bon, are very well in their proper place—that, you would say, is
      the head?—right—the head of a worm. To you, likewise, these
      optics are indispensable—yet I will convince you that my vision is
      more penetrating than your own. There is a cat I see in the corner—a
      pretty cat—look at her—observe her well. Now, Bon-Bon, do you
      behold the thoughts—the thoughts, I say,—the ideas—the
      reflections—which are being engendered in her pericranium? There it
      is, now—you do not! She is thinking we admire the length of her tail
      and the profundity of her mind. She has just concluded that I am the most
      distinguished of ecclesiastics, and that you are the most superficial of
      metaphysicians. Thus you see I am not altogether blind; but to one of my
      profession, the eyes you speak of would be merely an incumbrance, liable
      at any time to be put out by a toasting-iron, or a pitchfork. To you, I
      allow, these optical affairs are indispensable. Endeavor, Bon-Bon, to use
      them well;—my vision is the soul.”
    </p>
<p>
      Hereupon the guest helped himself to the wine upon the table, and pouring
      out a bumper for Bon-Bon, requested him to drink it without scruple, and
      make himself perfectly at home.
    </p>
<p>
      “A clever book that of yours, Pierre,” resumed his Majesty,
      tapping our friend knowingly upon the shoulder, as the latter put down his
      glass after a thorough compliance with his visiter’s injunction.
      “A clever book that of yours, upon my honor. It’s a work after
      my own heart. Your arrangement of the matter, I think, however, might be
      improved, and many of your notions remind me of Aristotle. That
      philosopher was one of my most intimate acquaintances. I liked him as much
      for his terrible ill temper, as for his happy knack at making a blunder.
      There is only one solid truth in all that he has written, and for that I
      gave him the hint out of pure compassion for his absurdity. I suppose,
      Pierre Bon-Bon, you very well know to what divine moral truth I am
      alluding?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Cannot say that I—”
    </p>
<p>
      “Indeed!—why it was I who told Aristotle that by sneezing, men
      expelled superfluous ideas through the proboscis.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Which is—hiccup!—undoubtedly the case,” said the
      metaphysician, while he poured out for himself another bumper of Mousseux,
      and offered his snuff-box to the fingers of his visiter.
    </p>
<p>
      “There was Plato, too,” continued his Majesty, modestly
      declining the snuff-box and the compliment it implied—“there
      was Plato, too, for whom I, at one time, felt all the affection of a
      friend. You knew Plato, Bon-Bon?—ah, no, I beg a thousand pardons.
      He met me at Athens, one day, in the Parthenon, and told me he was
      distressed for an idea. I bade him write, down that o nous estin aulos. He
      said that he would do so, and went home, while I stepped over to the
      pyramids. But my conscience smote me for having uttered a truth, even to
      aid a friend, and hastening back to Athens, I arrived behind the
      philosopher’s chair as he was inditing the ‘aulos.’”
    </p>
<p>
      “Giving the lambda a fillip with my finger, I turned it upside down.
      So the sentence now read ‘o nous estin augos’, and is, you
      perceive, the fundamental doctrines in his metaphysics.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Were you ever at Rome?” asked the restaurateur, as he
      finished his second bottle of Mousseux, and drew from the closet a larger
      supply of Chambertin.
    </p>
<p>
      “But once, Monsieur Bon-Bon, but once. There was a time,” said
      the devil, as if reciting some passage from a book—“there was
      a time when occurred an anarchy of five years, during which the republic,
      bereft of all its officers, had no magistracy besides the tribunes of the
      people, and these were not legally vested with any degree of executive
      power—at that time, Monsieur Bon-Bon—at that time only I was
      in Rome, and I have no earthly acquaintance, consequently, with any of its
      philosophy.” (*2)
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
     {*2} Ils ecrivaient sur la Philosophie (<i>Cicero, Lucretius,
     Seneca</i>) mais c’etait la Philosophie Grecque.—<i>Condorcet</i>.
</pre>
<p>
      “What do you think of—what do you think of—hiccup!—Epicurus?”
    </p>
<p>
      “What do I think of whom?” said the devil, in astonishment,
      “you cannot surely mean to find any fault with Epicurus! What do I
      think of Epicurus! Do you mean me, sir?—I am Epicurus! I am the same
      philosopher who wrote each of the three hundred treatises commemorated by
      Diogenes Laertes.”
    </p>
<p>
      “That’s a lie!” said the metaphysician, for the wine had
      gotten a little into his head.
    </p>
<p>
      “Very well!—very well, sir!—very well, indeed, sir!”
      said his Majesty, apparently much flattered.
    </p>
<p>
      “That’s a lie!” repeated the restaurateur, dogmatically;
      “that’s a—hiccup!—a lie!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Well, well, have it your own way!” said the devil,
      pacifically, and Bon-Bon, having beaten his Majesty at argument, thought
      it his duty to conclude a second bottle of Chambertin.
    </p>
<p>
      “As I was saying,” resumed the visiter—“as I was
      observing a little while ago, there are some very outre notions in that
      book of yours Monsieur Bon-Bon. What, for instance, do you mean by all
      that humbug about the soul? Pray, sir, what is the soul?”
    </p>
<p>
      “The—hiccup!—soul,” replied the metaphysician,
      referring to his MS., “is undoubtedly-”
    </p>
<p>
      “No, sir!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Indubitably-”
    </p>
<p>
      “No, sir!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Indisputably-”
    </p>
<p>
      “No, sir!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Evidently-”
    </p>
<p>
      “No, sir!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Incontrovertibly-”
    </p>
<p>
      “No, sir!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Hiccup!—”
    </p>
<p>
      “No, sir!”
    </p>
<p>
      “And beyond all question, a-”
    </p>
<p>
      “No sir, the soul is no such thing!” (Here the philosopher,
      looking daggers, took occasion to make an end, upon the spot, of his third
      bottle of Chambertin.)
    </p>
<p>
      “Then—hic-cup!—pray, sir—what—what is it?”
    </p>
<p>
      “That is neither here nor there, Monsieur Bon-Bon,” replied
      his Majesty, musingly. “I have tasted—that is to say, I have
      known some very bad souls, and some too—pretty good ones.”
      Here he smacked his lips, and, having unconsciously let fall his hand upon
      the volume in his pocket, was seized with a violent fit of sneezing.
    </p>
<p>
      He continued.
    </p>
<p>
      “There was the soul of Cratinus—passable: Aristophanes—racy:
      Plato—exquisite—not your Plato, but Plato the comic poet; your
      Plato would have turned the stomach of Cerberus—faugh! Then let me
      see! there were Naevius, and Andronicus, and Plautus, and Terentius. Then
      there were Lucilius, and Catullus, and Naso, and Quintus Flaccus,—dear
      Quinty! as I called him when he sung a seculare for my amusement, while I
      toasted him, in pure good humor, on a fork. But they want flavor, these
      Romans. One fat Greek is worth a dozen of them, and besides will keep,
      which cannot be said of a Quirite.—Let us taste your Sauterne.”
    </p>
<p>
      Bon-Bon had by this time made up his mind to nil admirari and endeavored
      to hand down the bottles in question. He was, however, conscious of a
      strange sound in the room like the wagging of a tail. Of this, although
      extremely indecent in his Majesty, the philosopher took no notice:—simply
      kicking the dog, and requesting him to be quiet. The visiter continued:
    </p>
<p>
      “I found that Horace tasted very much like Aristotle;—you know
      I am fond of variety. Terentius I could not have told from Menander. Naso,
      to my astonishment, was Nicander in disguise. Virgilius had a strong twang
      of Theocritus. Martial put me much in mind of Archilochus—and Titus
      Livius was positively Polybius and none other.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Hic-cup!” here replied Bon-Bon, and his majesty proceeded:
    </p>
<p>
      “But if I have a penchant, Monsieur Bon-Bon—if I have a
      penchant, it is for a philosopher. Yet, let me tell you, sir, it is not
      every dev—I mean it is not every gentleman who knows how to choose a
      philosopher. Long ones are not good; and the best, if not carefully
      shelled, are apt to be a little rancid on account of the gall!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Shelled!”
    </p>
<p>
      “I mean taken out of the carcass.”
    </p>
<p>
      “What do you think of a—hic-cup!—physician?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Don’t mention them!—ugh! ugh! ugh!” (Here his
      Majesty retched violently.) “I never tasted but one—that
      rascal Hippocrates!—smelt of asafoetida—ugh! ugh! ugh!—caught
      a wretched cold washing him in the Styx—and after all he gave me the
      cholera morbus.”
    </p>
<p>
      “The—hiccup—wretch!” ejaculated Bon-Bon, “the—hic-cup!—absorption
      of a pill-box!”—and the philosopher dropped a tear.
    </p>
<p>
      “After all,” continued the visiter, “after all, if a dev—if
      a gentleman wishes to live, he must have more talents than one or two; and
      with us a fat face is an evidence of diplomacy.”
    </p>
<p>
      “How so?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Why, we are sometimes exceedingly pushed for provisions. You must
      know that, in a climate so sultry as mine, it is frequently impossible to
      keep a spirit alive for more than two or three hours; and after death,
      unless pickled immediately (and a pickled spirit is not good), they will—smell—you
      understand, eh? Putrefaction is always to be apprehended when the souls
      are consigned to us in the usual way.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Hiccup!—hiccup!—good God! how do you manage?”
    </p>
<p>
      Here the iron lamp commenced swinging with redoubled violence, and the
      devil half started from his seat;—however, with a slight sigh, he
      recovered his composure, merely saying to our hero in a low tone: “I
      tell you what, Pierre Bon-Bon, we must have no more swearing.”
    </p>
<p>
      The host swallowed another bumper, by way of denoting thorough
      comprehension and acquiescence, and the visiter continued.
    </p>
<p>
      “Why, there are several ways of managing. The most of us starve:
      some put up with the pickle: for my part I purchase my spirits vivente
      corpore, in which case I find they keep very well.”
    </p>
<p>
      “But the body!—hiccup!—the body!”
    </p>
<p>
      “The body, the body—well, what of the body?—oh! ah! I
      perceive. Why, sir, the body is not at all affected by the transaction. I
      have made innumerable purchases of the kind in my day, and the parties
      never experienced any inconvenience. There were Cain and Nimrod, and Nero,
      and Caligula, and Dionysius, and Pisistratus, and—and a thousand
      others, who never knew what it was to have a soul during the latter part
      of their lives; yet, sir, these men adorned society. Why possession of his
      faculties, mental and corporeal? Who writes a keener epigram? Who reasons
      more wittily? Who—but stay! I have his agreement in my pocket-book.”
    </p>
<p>
      Thus saying, he produced a red leather wallet, and took from it a number
      of papers. Upon some of these Bon-Bon caught a glimpse of the letters
      Machi—Maza—Robesp—with the words Caligula, George,
      Elizabeth. His Majesty selected a narrow slip of parchment, and from it
      read aloud the following words:
    </p>
<p>
      “In consideration of certain mental endowments which it is
      unnecessary to specify, and in further consideration of one thousand louis
      d’or, I being aged one year and one month, do hereby make over to
      the bearer of this agreement all my right, title, and appurtenance in the
      shadow called my soul. (Signed) A....” {*4} (Here His Majesty
      repeated a name which I did not feel justified in indicating more
      unequivocally.)
    </p>
<p>
      {*4} Quere-Arouet?
    </p>
<p>
      “A clever fellow that,” resumed he; “but like you,
      Monsieur Bon-Bon, he was mistaken about the soul. The soul a shadow,
      truly! The soul a shadow; Ha! ha! ha!—he! he! he!—hu! hu! hu!
      Only think of a fricasseed shadow!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Only think—hiccup!—of a fricasseed shadow!”
      exclaimed our hero, whose faculties were becoming much illuminated by the
      profundity of his Majesty’s discourse.
    </p>
<p>
      “Only think of a hiccup!—fricasseed shadow!! Now, damme!—hiccup!—humph!
      If I would have been such a—hiccup!—nincompoop! My soul, Mr.—humph!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Your soul, Monsieur Bon-Bon?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Yes, sir—hiccup!—my soul is-”
    </p>
<p>
      “What, sir?”
    </p>
<p>
      “No shadow, damme!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Did you mean to say-”
    </p>
<p>
      “Yes, sir, my soul is—hiccup!—humph!—yes, sir.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Did you not intend to assert-”
    </p>
<p>
      “My soul is—hiccup!—peculiarly qualified for—hiccup!—a-”
    </p>
<p>
      “What, sir?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Stew.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Ha!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Soufflee.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Eh!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Fricassee.”
    </p>
<p>
      “Indeed!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Ragout and fricandeau—and see here, my good fellow! I’ll
      let you have it—hiccup!—a bargain.” Here the philosopher
      slapped his Majesty upon the back.
    </p>
<p>
      “Couldn’t think of such a thing,” said the latter
      calmly, at the same time rising from his seat. The metaphysician stared.
    </p>
<p>
      “Am supplied at present,” said his Majesty.
    </p>
<p>
      “Hiccup—e-h?” said the philosopher.
    </p>
<p>
      “Have no funds on hand.”
    </p>
<p>
      “What?”
    </p>
<p>
      “Besides, very unhandsome in me—”
    </p>
<p>
      “Sir!”
    </p>
<p>
      “To take advantage of-”
    </p>
<p>
      “Hiccup!”
    </p>
<p>
      “Your present disgusting and ungentlemanly situation.”
    </p>
<p>
      Here the visiter bowed and withdrew—in what manner could not
      precisely be ascertained—but in a well-concerted effort to discharge
      a bottle at “the villain,” the slender chain was severed that
      depended from the ceiling, and the metaphysician prostrated by the
      downfall of the lamp.
    </p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
